The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table by Oliver Wendell Holmes Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table THE AUTOCRAT'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY . 
THE interruption referred to in the first sentence of the first of these papers was just a quarter of a century in duration . 
Two articles entitled The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table will be found in the New England Magazine , formerly published in Boston by J. T. and E. Buckingham . 
The date of the first of these articles is November , and that of the second February . 
The man is father to the boy that was , and I am my own son , as it seems to me , in those papers of the New England Magazine . 
If I find it hard to pardon the boy's faults , others would find it harder . 
They will not , therefore , be reprinted here , nor as I hope , anywhere . 
But a sentence or two from them will perhaps bear reproducing , and with these I trust the gentle reader , if that kind being still breathes , will be contented . 
It is a capital plan to carry a tablet with you , and , when you find yourself felicitous , take notes of your own conversation . 
When I feel inclined to read poetry I take down my Dictionary . 
The poetry of words is quite as beautiful as that of sentences . 
The author may arrange the gems effectively , but their fhape and luftre have been given by the attrition of ages . 
Once on a time , a notion was ftarted , that if all the people in the world would fhout at once , it might be heard in the moon . 
So the projectors agreed it fhould be done in juft ten years . 
Some thousand fhip loads of chronometers were diftributed to the selectmen and other great folks of all the different nations . 
For a year beforehand , nothing else was talked about but the awful noise that was to be made on the great occafion . 
There was nothing better than these things and there was not a little that was much worse . 
This son of mine , whom I have not seen for these twenty five years , generously counted , was a self willed youth , always too ready to utter his unchastised fancies . 
He , like too many American young people , got the spur when he should have had the rein . 
He therefore helped to fill the market with that unripe fruit which his father says in one of these papers abounds in the marts of his native country . 
All these by gone shortcomings he would hope are forgiven , did he not feel sure that very few of his readers know anything about them . 
CHAPTER I I WAS JUST going to say , when I was interrupted , that one of the many ways of classifying minds is under the heads of arithmetical and algebraical intellects . 
All economical and practical wisdom is an extension or variation of the following arithmetical formula . 
He abused his liberty on this occasion by presuming to say that Leibnitz had the same observation . 
No , sir , I replied , he has not . 
But he said a mighty good thing about mathematics , that sounds something like it , and you found it , NOT IN THE ORIGINAL , but quoted by Dr . 
I will tell the company what he did say , one of these days . 
If I belong to a Society of Mutual Admiration ? I blush to say that I do not at this present moment . 
I once did , however . 
Many of them deserved it they have become famous since . 
All generous companies of artists , authors , philanthropists , men of science , are , or ought to be , Societies of Mutual Admiration . 
A man of genius , or any kind of superiority , is not debarred from admiring the same quality in another , nor the other from returning his admiration . 
They may even associate together and continue to think highly of each other . 
And so of a dozen such men , if any one place is fortunate enough to hold so many . 
The being referred to above assumes several false premises . 
First , that men of talent necessarily hate each other . 
Secondly , that intimate knowledge or habitual association destroys our admiration of persons whom we esteemed highly at a distance . 
Fourthly , that it is an outrage that he is not asked to join them . 
Here the company laughed a good deal , and the old gentleman who sits opposite said , That's it ! that's it ! I continued , for I was in the talking vein . 
As to clever people's hating each other , I think a LITTLE extra talent does sometimes make people jealous . 
They become irritated by perpetual attempts and failures , and it hurts their tempers and dispositions . 
Unpretending mediocrity is good , and genius is glorious but a weak flavor of genius in an essentially common person is detestable . 
It spoils the grand neutrality of a commonplace character , as the rinsings of an unwashed wineglass spoil a draught of fair water . 
He and his fellows are always fighting . 
With them familiarity naturally breeds contempt . 
If the Mutuals have really nothing among them worth admiring , that alters the question . 
Let him inspect its mysteries through the knot hole he has secured , but not use that orifice as a medium for his popgun . 
Wise ones are prouder of the title M. S. M. A. than of all their other honors put together . 
All generous minds have a horror of what are commonly called facts . 
They are the brute beasts of the intellectual domain . 
The reader will of course understand the precise amount of seasoning which must be added to it before he adopts it as one of the axioms of his life . 
The speaker disclaims all responsibility for its abuse in incompetent hands . 
This business of conversation is a very serious matter . 
There are men that it weakens one to talk with an hour more than a day's fasting would do . 
Nobody measures your nervous force as it runs away , nor bandages your brain and marrow after the operation . 
There are men of ESPRIT who are excessively exhausting to some people . 
They are the talkers who have what may be called JERKY minds . 
Their thoughts do not run in the natural order of sequence . 
They say bright things on all possible subjects , but their zigzags rack you to death . 
After a jolting half hour with one of these jerky companions , talking with a dull friend affords great relief . 
It is like taking the cat in your lap after holding a squirrel . 
all men are bores , except when we want them . 
There never was but one man whom I would trust with my latch key . 
Who might that favored person be ? Zimmermann . 
The men of genius that I fancy most have erectile heads like the cobra di capello . 
The hydraulic arrangements for supplying the brain with blood are only second in importance to its own organization . 
The bulbous headed fellows that steam well when they are at work are the men that draw big audiences and give us marrowy books and pictures . 
It is a good sign to have one's feet grow cold when he is writing . 
He must be a poor creature that does not often repeat himself . 
I shall use the same types when I like , but not commonly the same stereotypes . 
A thought is often original , though you have uttered it a hundred times . 
It has come to you over a new route , by a new and express train of associations . 
Sometimes , but rarely , one may be caught making the same speech twice over , and yet be held blameless . 
Thus , a certain lecturer , after performing in an inland city , where dwells a LITTERATRICE of note , was invited to meet her and others over the social teacup . 
She pleasantly referred to his many wanderings in his new occupation . 
Yes , he replied , I am like the Huma , the bird that never lights , being always in the cars , as he is always on the wing . 
The lecturer visited the same place once more for the same purpose . 
Another social cup after the lecture , and a second meeting with the distinguished lady . 
You are constantly going from place to place , she said . 
Yes , he answered , I am like the Huma , and finished the sentence as before . 
On the contrary , he had never once thought of the odious fowl until the recurrence of precisely the same circumstances brought up precisely the same idea . 
He ought to have been proud of the accuracy of his mental adjustments . 
Given certain factors , and a sound brain should always evolve the same fixed product with the certainty of Babbage's calculating machine . 
Sometimes I have been troubled that I had not a deeper intuitive apprehension of the relations of numbers . 
But the triumph of the ciphering hand organ has consoled me . 
I always fancy I can hear the wheels clicking in a calculator's brain . 
Little localized powers , and little narrow streaks of specialized knowledge , are things men are very apt to be conceited about . 
Say rather it is like the natural unguent of the sea fowl's plumage , which enables him to shed the rain that falls on him and the wave in which he dips . 
When one has had ALL his conceit taken out of him , when he has lost ALL his illusions , his feathers will soon soak through , and he will fly no more . 
So you admire conceited people , do you ? said the young lady who has come to the city to be finished off for the duties of life . 
I am afraid you do not study logic at your school , my dear . 
It does not follow that I wish to be pickled in brine because I like a salt water plunge at Nahant . 
I say that conceit is just as natural a thing to human minds as a centre is to a circle . 
But little minded people's thoughts move in such small circles that five minutes' conversation gives you an arc long enough to determine their whole curve . 
An arc in the movement of a large intellect does not sensibly differ from a straight line . 
Even if it have the third vowel as its centre , it does not soon betray it . 
The highest thought , that is , is the most seemingly impersonal it does not obviously imply any individual centre . 
Audacious self esteem , with good ground for it , is always imposing . 
What are the great faults of conversation ? Want of ideas , want of words , want of manners , are the principal ones , I suppose you think . 
In short , just as a written constitution is essential to the best social order , so a code of finalities is a necessary condition of profitable talk between two persons . 
Talking is like playing on the harp there is as much in laying the hand on the strings to stop their vibrations as in twanging them to bring out their music . 
Do you mean to say the pun question is not clearly settled in your minds ? Let me lay down the law upon the subject . 
Life and language are alike sacred . 
Homicide and VERBICIDE that is , violent treatment of a word with fatal results to its legitimate meaning , which is its life are alike forbidden . 
Manslaughter , which is the meaning of the one , is the same as man's laughter , which is the end of the other . 
A pun is PRIMA FACIE an insult to the person you are talking with . 
It implies utter indifference to or sublime contempt for his remarks , no matter how serious . 
I speak of total depravity , and one says all that is written on the subject is deep raving . 
I have committed my self respect by talking with such a person . 
I should like to commit him , but cannot , because he is a nuisance . 
Or I speak of geological convulsions , and he asks me what was the cosine of Noah's ark also , whether the Deluge was not a deal huger than any modern inundation . 
A pun does not commonly justify a blow in return . 
Thus , in a case lately decided before Miller , J. , Doe presented Roe a subscription paper , and urged the claims of suffering humanity . 
Roe replied by asking , When charity was like a top ? It was in evidence that Doe preserved a dignified silence . 
Roe then said , When it begins to hum . 
The chief laid down his notions of the law to his brother justices , who unanimously replied , Jest so . 
The bound volume was forfeited as a deodand , but not claimed . 
People that make puns are like wanton boys that put coppers on the railroad tracks . 
They amuse themselves and other children , but their little trick may upset a freight train of conversation for the sake of a battered witticism . 
I will thank you , B. F. , to bring down two books , of which I will mark the places on this slip of paper . 
I wished to refer to two eminent authorities . 
Now be so good as to listen . 
The great moralist says To trifle with the vocabulary which is the vehicle of social intercourse is to tamper with the currency of human intelligence . 
He who would violate the sanctities of his mother tongue would invade the recesses of the paternal till without remorse , and repeat the banquet of Saturn without an indigestion . 
And , once more , listen to the historian . 
The Bishops were notoriously addicted to them . 
The Lords Temporal carried them to the verge of license . 
Majesty itself must have its Royal quibble . 
'Ye be burly , my Lord of Burleigh , said Queen Elizabeth , 'but ye shall make less stir in our realm than my Lord of Leicester . 
The gravest wisdom and the highest breeding lent their sanction to the practice . 
Lord Bacon playfully declared himself a descendant of 'Og , the King of Bashan . 
Sir Philip Sidney , with his last breath , reproached the soldier who brought him water , for wasting a casque full upon a dying man . 
A courtier , who saw Othello performed at the Globe Theatre , remarked , that the blackamoor was a brute , and not a man . 
'Thou hast reason , replied a great Lord , 'according to Plato his saying for this be a two legged animal WITH feathers . 
The fatal habit became universal . 
The infection spread to the national conscience . 
Political double dealings naturally grew out of verbal double meanings . 
The teeth of the new dragon were sown by the Cadmus who introduced the alphabet of equivocation . 
What was levity in the time of the Tudors grew to regicide and revolution in the age of the Stuarts . 
Who was that boarder that just whispered something about the Macaulay flowers of literature ? There was a dead silence . 
I said calmly , I shall henceforth consider any interruption by a pun as a hint to change my boarding house . 
Do not plead my example . 
If I have used any such , it has been only as a Spartan father would show up a drunken helot . 
We have done with them . 
You can hire logic , in the shape of a lawyer , to prove anything that you want to prove . 
You can buy treatises to show that Napoleon never lived , and that no battle of Bunker hill was ever fought . 
The great minds are those with a wide span , which couple truths related to , but far removed from , each other . 
Logicians carry the surveyor's chain over the track of which these are the true explorers . 
I value a man mainly for his primary relations with truth , as I understand truth , not for any secondary artifice in handling his ideas . 
Some of the sharpest men in argument are notoriously unsound in judgment . 
I should not trust the counsel of a smart debater , any more than that of a good chess player . 
Either may of course advise wisely , but not necessarily because he wrangles or plays well . 
For his part , common sense was good enough for him . 
Precisely so , my dear sir , I replied common sense , AS YOU UNDERSTAND IT . 
We all have to assume a standard of judgment in our own minds , either of things or persons . 
On the whole , I had rather judge men's minds by comparing their thoughts with my own , than judge of thoughts by knowing who utter them . 
I must do one or the other . 
What if , instead of talking this morning , I should read you a copy of verses , with critical remarks by the author ? Any of the company can retire that like . 
A million sleepless lids , they say , Will be at least a warning And so the flowers would watch by day , The stars from eve to morning . 
On hill and prairie , field and lawn , Their dewy eyes upturning , The flowers still watch from reddening dawn Till western skies are burning . 
Alas ! each hour of daylight tells A tale of shame so crushing , That some turn white as sea bleached shells , And some are always blushing . 
What do YOU think of these verses my friends ? Is that piece an impromptu ? said my landlady's daughter . 
OUI ET NON , MA PETITE , Yes and no , my child . 
All poets will tell you just such stories . 
C'EST LE DERNIER PAS QUI COUTE . 
One would think they had been built in your parlour or study , and were waiting to be launched . 
Well , now , there are poems as hard to get rid of as these rural visitors . 
I suspect a good many impromptus could tell just such a story as the above . 
Here turning to our landlady , I used an illustration which pleased the company much at the time , and has since been highly commanded . 
One gets tired to death of the old , old rhymes , such as you see in that copy of verses , which I don't mean to abuse , or to praise either . 
I always feel as if I were a cobbler , putting new top leathers to an old pair of boot soles and bodies , when I am fitting sentiments to these venerable jingles . 
warning Nine tenths of the Juvenile Poems written spring out of the above musical and suggestive coincidences . 
Yes ? said our landlady's daughter . 
What were you whispering ? said the daughter of the house , moistening her lips , as she spoke , in a very engaging manner . 
I was only laying down a principle of social diagnosis . 
Yes ? It is curious to see how the same wants and tastes find the same implements and modes of expression in all times and places . 
The young ladies of Otaheite , as you may see in Cook's Voyages , had a sort of crinoline arrangement fully equal in radius to the largest spread of our own lady baskets . 
When I fling a Bay State shawl over my shoulders , I am only taking a lesson from the climate that the Indian had learned before me . 
A BLANKET shawl we call it , and not a plaid and we wear it like the aborigines , and not like the Highlanders . 
We are the Romans of the modern world , the great assimilating people . 
Conflicts and conquests are of course necessary accidents with us , as with our prototypes . 
And so we come to their style of weapon . 
Our army sword is the short , stiff , pointed GLADIUS of the Romans and the American bowie knife is the same tool , modified to meet the daily wants of civil society . 
I announce at this table an axiom not to be found in Montesquieu or the journals of Congress The race that shortens its weapons lengthens its boundaries . 
It was the Polish LANCE that left Poland at last with nothing of her own to bound . 
Self made men ? Well , yes . 
Of course everybody likes and respects self made men . 
It is a great deal better to be made in that way than not to be made at all . 
They never thought of praising the fine blocks of houses a little farther on . 
But as to saying that one is every way the equal of the other , that is another matter . 
The right of strict social discrimination of all things and persons , according to their merits , native or acquired , is one of the most precious republican privileges . 
I take the liberty to exercise it , when I say , that , OTHER THINGS BEING EQUAL , in most relations of life I prefer a man of family . 
What do I mean by a man of family ? O , I'll give you a general idea of what I mean . 
Let us give him a first rate fit out it costs us nothing . 
The member of the Council , by Smibert . 
Great grandmother , by the same artist brown satin , lace very fine , hands superlative grand old lady , stiffish , but imposing . 
Her mother , artist unknown flat , angular , hanging sleeves parrot on fist . 
A pair of Stuarts , viz . 
As for the miniatures by Malbone , we don't count them in the gallery . 
Elzevirs , with the Latinized appellations of youthful progenitors , and HIC LIBER EST MEUS on the title page . 
A set of Hogarth's original plates . 
Pope , original edition , volumes , London , . 
Barrow on the lower shelves , in folio . 
Tillotson on the upper , in a little dark platoon of octo decimos . 
Some family silver a string of wedding and funeral rings the arms of the family curiously blazoned the same in worsted , by a maiden aunt . 
for the man who inherits family traditions and the cumulative humanities of at least four or five generations . 
Above all things , as a child , he should have tumbled about in a library . 
All men are afraid of books , who have not handled them from infancy . 
I tell you he is at home wherever he smells the invigorating fragrance of Russia leather . 
No self made man feels so . 
One may , it is true , have all the antecedents I have spoken of , and yet be a boor or a shabby fellow . 
One may have none of them , and yet be fit for councils and courts . 
Then let them change places . 
Our social arrangement has this great beauty , that its strata shift up and down as they change specific gravity , without being clogged by layers of prescription . 
I should have felt more nervous about the late comet , if I had thought the world was ripe . 
If certain things , which seem to me essential to a millennium , had come to pass , I should have been frightened but they haven't . 
Perhaps you would like to hear my LATTER DAY WARNINGS . 
Of course they would not expect it every morning . 
Neither must the reader suppose that all these things I have reported were said at any one breakfast time . 
I finished off with reading some verses of my friend the Professor , of whom you may perhaps hear more by and by . 
The Professor read them , he told me , at a farewell meeting , where the youngest of our great Historians met a few of his many friends at their invitation . 
I REALLY believe some people save their bright thoughts , as being too precious for conversation . 
The talker took him to the window and asked him to look out and tell what he saw . 
Nothing but a very dusty street , he said , and a man driving a sprinkling machine through it . 
It shapes our thoughts for us the waves of conversation roll them as the surf rolls the pebbles on the shore . 
Let me modify the image a little . 
I rough out my thoughts in talk as an artist models in clay . 
Out of it come the shapes which you turn into marble or bronze in your immortal books , if you happen to write such . 
The company agreed that this last illustration was of superior excellence , or , in the phrase used by them , Fust rate . 
I acknowledged the compliment , but gently rebuked the expression . 
Fust rate , prime , a prime article , a superior piece of goods , a handsome garment , a gent in a flowered vest , all such expressions are final . 
They blast the lineage of him or her who utters them , for generations up and down . 
There is one other phrase which will soon come to be decisive of a man's social STATUS , if it is not already That tells the whole story . 
It is an expression which vulgar and conceited people particularly affect , and which well meaning ones , who know better , catch from them . 
It is intended to stop all debate , like the previous question in the General Court . 
Only it doesn't simply because that does not usually tell the whole , nor one half of the whole story . 
It is an odd idea , that almost all our people have had a professional education . 
To become a doctor a man must study some three years and hear a thousand lectures , more or less . 
Just how much study it takes to make a lawyer I cannot say , but probably not more than this . 
on theology every year , and this , twenty , thirty , fifty years together . 
They read a great many religious books besides . 
The clergy , however , rarely hear any sermons except what they preach themselves . 
A dull preacher might be conceived , therefore , to lapse into a state of QUASI heathenism , simply for want of religious instruction . 
And on the other hand , an attentive and intelligent hearer , listening to a succession of wise teachers , might become actually better educated in theology than any one of them . 
We are all theological students , and more of us qualified as doctors of divinity than have received degrees at any of the universities . 
I have often noticed , however , that a hopelessly dull discourse acts INDUCTIVELY , as electricians would say , in developing strong mental currents . 
If you ever saw a crow with a king bird after him , you will get an image of a dull speaker and a lively listener . 
I think these remarks were received rather coolly . 
So I went to my good old minister , and repeated the remarks , as nearly as I could remember them , to him . 
He laughed good naturedly , and said there was considerable truth in them . 
He thought he could tell when people's minds were wandering , by their looks . 
In the earlier years of his ministry he had sometimes noticed this , when he was preaching very little of late years . 
Sometimes , when his colleague was preaching , he observed this kind of inattention but after all , it was not so very unnatural . 
I want to make a literary confession now , which I believe nobody has made before me . 
You know very well that I write verses sometimes , because I have read some of them at this table . 
Of course I write some lines or passages which are better than others some which , compared with the others , might be called relatively excellent . 
It is in the nature of things that I should consider these relatively excellent lines or passages as absolutely good . 
So much must be pardoned to humanity . 
Now I never wrote a good line in my life , but the moment after it was written it seemed a hundred years old . 
Very commonly I had a sudden conviction that I had seen it somewhere . 
I have learned utterly to distrust them , and never allow them to bully me out of a thought or line . 
This is the philosophy of it . 
Any crystalline group of musical words has had a long and still period to form in . 
But there is a larger law which perhaps comprehends these facts . 
The rapidity with which ideas grow old in our memories is in a direct ratio to the squares of their importance . 
Their apparent age runs up miraculously , like the value of diamonds , as they increase in magnitude . 
A great calamity , for instance , is as old as the trilobites an hour after it has happened . 
It stains backward through all the leaves we have turned over in the book of life , before its blot of tears or of blood is dry on the page we are turning . 
I wish I had not said all this then and there . 
I might have known better . 
The pale schoolmistress , in her mourning dress , was looking at me , as I noticed , with a wild sort of expression . 
When a person is suddenly thrust into any strange , new position of trial , he finds the place fits him as if he had been measured for it . 
He has committed a great crime , for instance , and is sent to the State Prison . 
Let me strengthen the image a little . 
I should have gloried to see the stars and stripes in front at the finish . 
I love my country , and I love horses . 
Stubbs's old mezzotint of Eclipse hangs over my desk , and Herring's portrait of Plenipotentiary , whom I saw run at Epsom , over my fireplace . 
Horse RACING is not a republican institution horse TROTTING is . 
Only very rich persons can keep race horses , and everybody knows they are kept mainly as gambling implements . 
All that matter about blood and speed we won't discuss we understand all that useful , very , OF course , great obligations to the Godolphin Arabian , and the rest . 
I say racing horses are essentially gambling implements , as much as roulette tables . 
Now I am not preaching at this moment I may read you one of my sermons some other morning but I maintain that gambling , on the great scale , is not republican . 
Real Republicanism is stern and severe its essence is not in forms of government , but in the omnipotence of public opinion which grows out of it . 
This public opinion cannot prevent gambling with dice or stocks , but it can and does compel it to keep comparatively quiet . 
Now just compare the racer with the trotter for a moment . 
The racer is incidentally useful , but essentially something to bet upon , as much as the thimble rigger's little joker . 
The trotter is essentially and daily useful , and only incidentally a tool for sporting men . 
As an American , I hope we shall . 
As a moralist and occasional sermonizer , I am not so anxious about it . 
The racer brings with him gambling , cursing , swearing , drinking , the eating of oysters , and a distaste for mob caps and the middle aged virtues . 
I consent to your saying blood horse , if you like . 
Also , if , next year , we send out Posterior and Posterioress , the winners of the great national four mile race in . 
, and they happen to get beaten , pay your bets , and behave like men and gentlemen about it , if you know how . 
I felt a great deal better after blowing off the ill temper condensed in the above paragraph . 
Whenever the extracts from a living writer begin to multiply fast in the papers , without obvious reason , there is a new book or a new edition coming . 
The extracts are GROUND BAIT . 
Literary life is fun of curious phenomena . 
I don't know that there is anything more noticeable than what we may call CONVENTIONAL REPUTATIONS . 
There is a tacit understanding in every community of men of letters that they will not disturb the popular fallacy respecting this or that electro gilded celebrity . 
A poor wretch he must be who would wantonly sit down on one of these bandbox reputations . 
These celebrities I speak of are the Prince Rupert's drops of the learned and polite world . 
A thousand years is a good while , said the old gentleman who sits opposite , thoughtfully . 
Where have I been for the last three or four days ? Down at the Island , deer shooting . 
How many did I bag ? I brought home one buck shot . 
The Island is where ? No matter . 
It is the most splendid domain that any man looks upon in these latitudes . 
Open patches where the sun gets in and goes to sleep , and the winds come so finely sifted that they are as soft as swan's down . 
Rocks scattered about , Stonehenge like monoliths . 
Fresh water lakes one of them , Mary's lake , crystal clear , full of flashing pickerel lying under the lily pads like tigers in the jungle . 
Six pounds of ditto killed one morning for breakfast . 
The divinity student looked as if he would like to question my Latin . 
No , sir , I said , you need not trouble yourself . 
There is a higher law in grammar , not to be put down by Andrews and Stoddard . 
Such hospitality as that island has seen there has not been the like of in these our New England sovereignties . 
There is nothing in the shape of kindness and courtesy that can make life beautiful , which has not found its home in that ocean principality . 
I don't believe any man ever talked like that in this world . 
How can a man help writing poetry in such a place ? Everybody does write poetry that goes there . 
Of course I had to write my little copy of verses with the rest here it is , if you will hear me read it . 
Watching them from one of the windows of the great mansion , I saw these perpetual changes , and moralized thus SUN AND SHADOW . 
Good mental machinery ought to break its own wheels and levers , if anything is thrust among them suddenly which tends to stop them or reverse their motion . 
A weak mind does not accumulate force enough to hurt itself stupidity often saves a man from going mad . 
We frequently see persons in insane hospitals , sent there in consequence of what are called RELIGIOUS mental disturbances . 
I confess that I think better of them than of many who hold the same notions , and keep their wits and appear to enjoy life very well , outside of the asylums . 
Any decent person ought to go mad , if he really holds such or such opinions . 
It is very much to his discredit in every point of view , if he does not . 
That condition becomes a normal one , under the circumstances . 
Nobody understood this but the theological student and the schoolmistress . 
They looked intelligently at each other but whether they were thinking about my paradox or not , I am not clear . 
It would be natural enough . 
Love and Death enter boarding houses without asking the price of board , or whether there is room for them . 
Alas , these young people are poor and pallid ! Love SHOULD be both rich and rosy , but MUST be either rich or rosy . 
I have played the part of the Poor Gentleman , before a great many audiences , more , I trust , than I shall ever face again . 
I have seen my name stuck up in letters so big that I was ashamed to show myself in the place by daylight . 
I have been through as many hardships as Ulysses , in the pursuit of my histrionic vocation . 
I have travelled in cars until the conductors all knew me like a brother . 
Perhaps I shall give you some of my experiences one of these days I will not now , for I have something else for you . 
Of course I wrote the prologue I was asked to write . 
I did not see the play , though . 
wanted to interfere , and , very naturally , the young lady was too sharp for him . 
Now , then , for my prologue . 
A Prologue ? Well , of course the ladies know I have my doubts . 
No matter , here we go ! What is a Prologue ? Let our Tutor teach PRO means beforehand LOGOS stands for speech . 
'Tis like the harper's prelude on the strings , The prima donna's courtesy ere she sings Prologues in metre are to other PROS As worsted stockings are to engine hose . 
The world's a stage , as Shakspeare said , one day The stage a world was what he meant to say . 
The outside world's a blunder , that is clear The real world that Nature meant is here . 
Of love that conquers in disaster's spite . 
All earthly powers confess your sovereign art But that one rebel , woman's wilful heart . 
All foes you master but a woman's wit Lets daylight through you ere you know you're hit . 
So , just to picture what her art can do , Hear an old story made as good as new . 
Rudolph , professor of the headsman's trade , Alike was famous for his arm and blade . 
One day a prisoner Justice had to kill Knelt at the block to test the artist's skill . 
Bare armed , swart visaged , gaunt , and shaggy browed , Rudolph the headsman rose above the crowd . 
His falchion lightened with a sudden gleam , As the pike's armor flashes in the stream . 
He sheathed his blade he turned as if to go The victim knelt , still waiting for the blow . 
Why strikest not ? Perform thy murderous act , The prisoner said . 
Friend I HAVE struck , the artist straight replied Wait but one moment , and yourself decide . 
No alterations were suggested by the lady to whom it was sent , so far as I know . 
Sometimes people criticize the poems one sends them , and suggest all sorts of improvements . 
I understood that it was to be a festive and convivial occasion , and ordered myself accordingly . 
It seems the president of the day was what is called a teetotaller . 
I received a note from him in the following words , containing the copy subjoined , with the emendations annexed to it . 
Dear Sir , your poem gives good satisfaction to the committee . 
The sentiments expressed with reference to liquor are not , however , those generally entertained by this community . 
I have therefore consulted the clergyman of this place , who has made come slight changes , which he thinks will remove all objections , and keep the valuable portions of the poem . 
Please to inform me of your charge for said poem . 
Our means are limited , etc . 
stable boys smoking long nines . 
But as I never got my pay , I don't know that it made much difference . 
I am a very particular person about having all I write printed as I write it . 
I require to see a proof , a revise , a re revise , and a double re revise , or fourth proof rectified impression of all my productions , especially verse . 
A misprint kills a sensitive author . 
An intentional change of his text murders him . 
No wonder so many poets die young ! I have nothing more to report at this time , except two pieces of advice I gave to the young women at table . 
One relates to a vulgarism of language , which I grieve to say is sometimes heard even from female lips . 
The other is of more serious purport , and applies to such as contemplate a change of condition , matrimony , in fact . 
The woman who calculates is lost . 
Put not your trust in money , but put your money in trust . 
CHAPTER III THE Atlantic obeys the moon , and its LUNIVERSARY has come round again . 
I have gathered up some hasty notes of my remarks made since the last high tides , which I respectfully submit . 
Please to remember this is TALK just as easy and just as formal as I choose to make it . 
on having his fur smoothed in the right way by a skilful hand . 
But let me give you a caution . 
Be very careful how you tell an author he is DROLL . 
Ten to one he will hate you and if he does , be sure he can do you a mischief , and very probably will . 
Say you CRIED over his romance or his verses , and he will love you and send you a copy . 
You can laugh over that as much as you like in private . 
Wonder why authors and actors are ashamed of being funny ? Why , there are obvious reasons , and deep philosophical ones . 
The clown knows very well that the women are not in love with him , but with Hamlet , the fellow in the black cloak and plumed hat . 
The wit knows that his place is at the tail of a procession . 
If you want the deep underlying reason , I must take more time to tell it . 
There is a perfect consciousness in every form of wit using that term in its general sense that its essence consists in a partial and incomplete view of whatever it touches . 
We get beautiful effects from wit , all the prismatic colors , but never the object as it is in fair daylight . 
A pun , which is a kind if wit , is a different and much shallower trick in mental optics throwing the SHADOWS of two objects so that one overlies the other . 
Poetry uses the rainbow tints for special effects , but always keeps its essential object in the purest white light of truth . 
It broke the charm , and that breakfast was over . 
Don't flatter yourselves that friendship authorizes you to say disagreeable things to your intimates . 
On the contrary , the nearer you come into relation with a person , the more necessary do tact and courtesy become . 
Except in cases of necessity , which are rare , leave your friend to learn unpleasant truths from his enemies they are ready enough to tell them . 
Good breeding NEVER forgets that AMOUR PROPRE is universal . 
You need not get up a rebellion against what I say , if you find everything in my sayings is not exactly new . 
You can't possibly mistake a man who means to be honest for a literary pickpocket . 
I once read an introductory lecture that looked to me too learned for its latitude . 
On examination , I found all its erudition was taken ready made from D'Israeli . 
If I had been ill natured , I should have shown up the little great man , who had once belabored me in his feeble way . 
But one can generally tell these wholesale thieves easily enough , and they are not worth the trouble of putting them in the pillory . 
I doubt the entire novelty of my remarks just made on telling unpleasant truths , yet I am not conscious of any larceny . 
Neither make too much of flaws and occasional overstatements . 
Some persons seem to think that absolute truth , in the form of rigidly stated propositions , is all that conversation admits . 
This is precisely as if a musician should insist on having nothing but perfect chords and simple melodies , no diminished fifths , no flat sevenths , no flourishes , on any account . 
Now it is fair to say , that , just as music must have all these , so conversation must have its partial truths , its embellished truths , its exaggerated truths . 
It is in its higher forms an artistic product , and admits the ideal element as much as pictures or statues . 
One man who is a little too literal can spoil the talk of a whole tableful of men of ESPRIT . 
Therefore conversation which is suggestive rather than argumentative , which lets out the most of each talker's results of thought , is commonly the pleasantest and the most profitable . 
It is not easy , at the best , for two persons talking together to make the most of each other's thoughts , there are so many of them . 
The company looked as if they wanted an explanation . 
When John and Thomas , for instance , are talking together , it is natural enough that among the six there should be more or less confusion and misapprehension . 
Our landlady turned pale no doubt she thought there was a screw loose in my intellects , and that involved the probable loss of a boarder . 
I believe the old gentleman opposite was afraid I should seize the carving knife at any rate , he slid it to one side , as it were carelessly . 
The real John known only to his Maker . 
John's ideal John never the real one , and often very unlike him . 
Thomas's ideal John never the real John , nor John's John , but often very unlike either . 
Only one of the three Johns is taxed only one can be weighed on a platform balance but the other two are just as important in the conversation . 
Let us suppose the real John to be old , dull , and ill looking . 
The same conditions apply to the three Thomases . 
Of these , the least important , philosophically speaking , is the one that we have called the real person . 
No wonder two disputants often get angry , when there are six of them talking and listening all at the same time . 
A very unphilosophical application of the above remarks was made by a young fellow , answering to the name of John , who sits near me at table . 
A certain basket of peaches , a rare vegetable , little known to boarding houses , was on its way to me VIA this unlettered Johannes . 
He appropriated the three that remained in the basket , remarking that there was just one apiece for him . 
I convinced him that his practical inference was hasty and illogical , but in the mean time he had eaten the peaches . 
It is a surprise , there is nothing to account for it . 
All at once we find that twice two make FIVE . 
Nature is fond of what are called gift enterprises . 
This little book of life which she has given into the hands of its joint possessors is commonly one of the old story books bound over again . 
But strangers are commonly the first to find the gift that came with the little book . 
It may be questioned whether anything can be conscious of its own flavor . 
No man knows his own voice many men do not know their own profiles . 
Every one remembers Carlyle's famous Characteristics article allow for exaggerations , and there is a great deal in his doctrine of the self unconsciousness of genius . 
It comes under the great law just stated . 
This incapacity of knowing its own traits is often found in the family as well as in the individual . 
Scientific knowledge , even in the most modest persons , has mingled with it a something which partakes of insolence . 
Take the man , for instance , who deals in the mathematical sciences . 
There is no elasticity in a mathematical fact if you bring up against it , it never yields a hair's breadth everything must go to pieces that comes in collision with it . 
What the mathematician knows being absolute , unconditional , incapable of suffering question , it should tend , in the nature of things , to breed a despotic way of thinking . 
So of those who deal with the palpable and often unmistakable facts of external nature only in a less degree . 
All this must react on the minds which handle these forms of truth . 
Oh , you need net tell me that Messrs . 
A. and B. are the most gracious , unassuming people in the world , and yet preeminent in the ranges of science I am referring to . 
I know that as well as you . 
A rash man , once visiting a certain noted institution at South Boston , ventured to express the sentiment , that man is a rational being . 
An old woman who was an attendant in the Idiot School contradicted the statement , and appealed to the facts before the speaker to disprove it . 
The rash man stuck to his hasty generalization , notwithstanding . 
It is my desire to be useful to those with whom I am associated in my daily relations . 
I not unfrequently practise the divine art of music in company with our landlady's daughter , who , as I mentioned before , is the owner of an accordion . 
Having myself a well marked barytone voice of more than half an octave in compass , I sometimes add my vocal powers to her execution of Thou , thou reign'st in this bosom . 
not , however , unless her mother or some other discreet female is present , to prevent misinterpretation or remark . 
The boy , I think , is doing well , between us , notwithstanding . 
The following is an UNCORRECTED French exercise , written by this young gentleman . 
His mother thinks it very creditable to his abilities though , being unacquainted with the French language , her judgment cannot be considered final . 
LE RAT DIES SALONS A LECTURE . 
CE rat ci est un animal fort singulier . 
Il a deux pattes de derriere sur lesquelles il marche , et deux pattes de devant dont il fait usage pour tenir les journaux . 
Cet animal a la peau noire pour le plupart , et porte un cerele blanchatre autour de son cou . 
On ne sait pas s'il a une autre gite que cela . 
Il a l'air d'une bete tres stupide , mais il est d'une sagacite et d'une vitesse extraordinaire quand il s'agit de saisir un journal nouveau . 
On ne sait pas pourquoi il lit , parcequ'il ne parait pas avoir des idees . 
Il vocalise rarement , mais en revanche , il fait des bruits nasaux divers . 
Il ne vole pas , ordinairement il fait rarement meme des echanges de parapluie , et jamais de chapeau , parceque son chapeau a toujours un caractere specifique . 
On ne sait pas au juste ce dont il se nourrit . 
Feu Cuvier etait d'avis que c'etait de l'odeur du cuir des reliures ce qu'on dit d'etre une nourriture animale fort saine , et peu chere . 
Enfin il meure , en laissant a ses heritiers une carte du Salon a Lecture on il avait existe pendant sa vie . 
On pretend qu'il revient toutes les nuits , apres la mort , visiter le Salon . 
On peut le voir , dit on , a minuit , dans sa place habituelle , tenant le journal du soir , et ayant a sa main un crayon de charbon . 
Le lendemain on trouve des caracteres inconnus sur les bords du journal . 
Ce qui prouve que le spiritualisme est vrai , et que Messieurs les Professeurs de Cambridge sont des imbeciles qui ne savent rien du tout , du tout . 
Fathers of families in moderate circumstances will find it profitable to their children , and an economical mode of instruction , to set them to revising and amending this boy's exercise . 
The passage was originally taken from the Histoire Naturelle des Betes Ruminans et Rongeurs , Bipedes et Autres , lately published in Paris . 
This was translated into English and published in London . 
It was republished at Great Pedlington , with notes and additions by the American editor . 
to another book edited by the same hand . 
The additions consist of the editor's name on the title page and back , with a complete and authentic list of said editor's honorary titles in the first of these localities . 
Our boy translated the translation back into French . 
This may be compared with the original , to be found on Shelf , Division X , of the Public Library of this metropolis . 
Some of you boarders ask me from time to time why I don't write a story , or a novel , or something of that kind . 
That every articulately speaking human being has in him stuff for ONE novel in three volumes duodecimo has long been with me a cherished belief . 
It has been maintained , on the other hand , that many persons cannot write more than one novel , that all after that are likely to be failures . 
All we can do with books of human experience is to make them alive again with something borrowed from our own lives . 
We can make a book alive for us just in proportion to its resemblance in essence or in form to our own experience . 
Now an author's first novel is naturally drawn , to a great extent , from his personal experiences that is , is a literal copy of nature under various slight disguises . 
Besides , there is great danger that a man's first life story shall clean him out , so to speak , of his best thoughts . 
Most lives , though their stream is loaded with sand and turbid with alluvial waste , drop a few golden grains of wisdom as they flow along . 
Oftentimes a single CRADLING gets them all , and after that the poor man's labor is only rewarded by mud and worn pebbles . 
All which proves that I , as an individual of the human family , could write one novel or story at any rate , if I would . 
Why don't I , then ? Well , there are several reasons against it . 
In the first place , I should tell all my secrets , and I maintain that verse is the proper medium for such revelations . 
Again , I am terribly afraid I should show up all my friends . 
Of all that have told stories among us there is hardly one I can recall who has not drawn too faithfully some living portrait that might better have been spared . 
Once more , I have sometimes thought it possible I might be too dull to write such a story as I should wish to write . 
And finally , I think it very likely I SHALL write a story one of these days . 
Don't be surprised at any time , if you see me coming out with The Schoolmistress , or The Old Gentleman Opposite . 
OUR schoolmistress and OUR old gentleman that sits opposite had left the table before I said this . 
I want my glory for writing the same discounted now , on the spot , if you please . 
I will write when I get ready . 
I don't pretend to know what you meant by it , but I take occasion to make a remark which may hereafter prove of value to some among you . 
I did not recognize in him inferiority of literary taste half so distinctly as I did simplicity of character and fearless acknowledgment of his inaptitude for scholarship . 
ENTRE NOUS , I always read with a mark . 
But even if he is actually so compounded , he need not read much . 
Society is a strong solution of books . 
It draws the virtue out of what is best worth reading , as hot water draws the strength of tea leaves . 
If I were a prince , I would hire or buy a private literary tea pot , in which I would steep all the leaves of new books that promised well . 
The infusion would do for me without the vegetable fibre . 
You understand me I would have a person whose sole business should be to read day and night , and talk to me whenever I wanted him to . 
In short , he is one of those men that know everything except how to make a living . 
Him would I keep on the square next my own royal compartment on life's chessboard . 
To him I would push up another pawn , in the shape of a comely and wise young woman , whom he would of course take to wife . 
For all contingencies I would liberally provide . 
A Club is the next best thing to this , strung like a harp , with about a dozen ringing intelligences , each answering to some chord of the macrocosm . 
They do well to dine together once in a while . 
A dinner party made up of such elements is the last triumph of civilization over barbarism . 
The whole force of conversation depends on how much you can take for granted . 
Vulgar chess players have to play their game out nothing short of the brutality of an actual checkmate satisfies their dull apprehensions . 
Just so in talking with first rate men especially when they are good natured and expansive , as they are apt to be at table . 
The trail of the serpent is over them all ! All lecturers , all professors , all schoolmasters , have ruts and grooves in their minds into which their conversation is perpetually sliding . 
Who was that person that was so abused some time since for saying that in the conflict of two races our sympathies naturally go with the higher ? No matter who he was . 
The India mail brings stories of women and children outraged and murdered the royal stronghold is in the hands of the babe killers . 
England takes down the Map of the World , which she has girdled with empire , and makes a correction thus DELPHI DELE . 
The civilized world says , Amen . 
which they used to alloy with three parts or more of the flowing stream . 
You will understand by the title that they are written in an imaginary character . 
I don't doubt they will fit some family man well enough . 
I send it forth as Oak Hall projects a coat , on A PRIORI grounds of conviction that it will suit somebody . 
There is no loftier illustration of faith than this . 
It builds a garment cut to the pattern of an Idea , and trusts that Nature will model a material shape to fit it . 
There is a prophecy in every seam , and its pockets are full of inspiration . 
I AM so well pleased with my boarding house that I intend to remain there , perhaps for years . 
Of course I shall have a great many conversations to report , and they will necessarily be of different tone and on different subjects . 
The talks are like the breakfasts , sometimes dipped toast , and sometimes dry . 
You must take them as they come . 
How can I do what all these letters ask me to ? No. . 
want serious and earnest thought . 
must have more jokes wants me to tell a good storey which he has copied out for me . 
wants something that would be of use to a practical man . 
more sentiment , heart's outpourings . 
My dear friends , one and all , I can do nothing but report such remarks as I happen to have made at our breakfast table . 
Their character will depend on many accidents , a good deal on the particular persons in the company to whom they were addressed . 
Another privilege of talking is to misquote . 
Of course it wasn't Proserpina that actually cut the yellow hair , but IRIS . 
it was the former lady's regular business , but Dido had used herself ungenteelly , and Madame d'Enfer stood firm on the point of etiquette . 
So the bathycolpian Here Juno , in Latin sent down Iris instead . 
But I was mightily pleased to see that one of the gentlemen that do the heavy articles for the celebrated Oceanic Miscellany misquoted Campbell's line without any excuse . 
Waft us HOME the MESSAGE of course it ought to be . 
and held there as long as you live , and longer . 
Some one was saying that it had cost nearly half a million to move the Leviathan only so far as they had got it already . 
Such or such a thought comes round periodically , in its turn . 
Accidental suggestions , however , so far interfere with the regular cycles , that we may find them practically beyond our power of recognition . 
Here is one which comes up at intervals in this way . 
Some one speaks of it , and there is an instant and eager smile of assent in the listener or listeners . 
Yes , indeed they have often been struck by it . 
ALL AT ONCE A CONVICTION FLASHES THROUGH US THAT WE HAVE BEEN IN THE SAME PRECISE CIRCUMSTANCES AS AT THE PRESENT INSTANT , ONCE OR MANY TIMES BEFORE . 
O , dear , yes ! said one of the company , everybody has had that feeling . 
The landlady didn't know anything about such notions it was an idee in folks' heads , she expected . 
I have noticed I went on to say the following circumstances connected with these sudden impressions . 
First , that the condition which seems to be the duplicate of a former one is often very trivial , one that might have presented itself a hundred times . 
Secondly , that the impression is very evanescent , and that it is rarely , if ever , recalled by any voluntary effort , at least after any time has elapsed . 
Thirdly , that there is a disinclination to record the circumstances , and a sense of incapacity to reproduce the state of mind in words . 
Fourthly , I have often felt that the duplicate condition had not only occurred once before , but that it was familiar and , as it seemed , habitual . 
Lastly , I have had the same convictions in my dreams . 
How do I account for it ? Why , there are several ways that I can mention , and you may take your choice . 
The first is that which the young lady hinted at that these flashes are sudden recollections of a previous existence . 
Wigan's doctrine of the brain's being a double organ , its hemispheres working together like the two eyes , accounts for it . 
But even allowing the centre of perception to be double , I can see no good reason for supposing this indefinite lengthening of the time , nor any analogy that bears it out . 
It seems to me most likely that the coincidence of circumstances is very partial , but that we take this partial resemblance for identity , as we occasionally do resemblances of persons . 
The apparent similarity may be owing perhaps , quite as much to the mental state at the time , as to the outward circumstances . 
Here is another of these curiously recurring remarks . 
MEMORY , IMAGINATION , OLD SENTIMENTS AND ASSOCIATIONS , ARE MORE READILY REACHED THROUGH THE SENSE OF SMELL THAN BY ALMOST ANY OTHER CHANNEL . 
Of course the particular odors which act upon each person's susceptibilities differ . 
O , yes ! I will tell you some of mine . 
The smell of PHOSPHORUS is one of them . 
Only the confounded Vienna matches , OHNE PHOSPHOR GERUCH , have worn my sensibilities a little . 
Then there is the MARIGOLD . 
Sally lies in the churchyard with a slab of blue slate at her head , lichen crusted , and leaning a little within the last few years . 
Perhaps the herb EVERLASTING , the fragrant IMMORTELLE of our autumn fields , has the most suggestive odor to me of all those that set me dreaming . 
I can hardly describe the strange thoughts and emotions that come to me as I inhale the aroma of its pale , dry , rustling flowers . 
A something it has of sepulchral spicery , as if it had been brought from the core of some great pyramid , where it had lain on the breast of a mummied Pharaoh . 
Something , too , of immortality in the sad , faint sweetness lingering so long in its lifeless petals . 
Yet this does not tell why it fills my eyes with tears and carries me in blissful thought to the banks of asphodel that border the River of Life . 
I should not have talked so much about these personal susceptibilities , if I had not a remark to make about them which I believe is a new one . 
There may be a physical reason for the strange connection between the sense of smell and the mind . 
To speak more truly the olfactory nerve is not a nerve at all , he says , but a part of the brain , in intimate connection with its anterior lobes . 
Whether this anatomical arrangement is at the bottom of the facts I have mentioned , I will not decide , but it is curious enough to be worth remembering . 
Contrast the sense of taste , as a source of suggestive impressions , with that of smell . 
Now the Professor assures me that you will find the nerve of taste has no immediate connection with the brain proper , but only with the prolongation of the spinal cord . 
The old gentleman opposite did not pay much attention , I think , to this hypothesis of mine . 
But while I was speaking about the sense of smell he nestled about in his seat , and presently succeeded in getting out a large red bandanna handkerchief . 
Then he lurched a little to the other side , and after much tribulation at last extricated an ample round snuff box . 
I looked as he opened it and felt for the wonted pugil . 
Moist rappee , and a Tonka bean lying therein . 
The odorous echo of a score of dead summers lingers yet in those dim recesses . 
Do I remember Byron's line about striking the electric chain ? To be sure I do . 
I sometimes think the less the hint that stirs the automatic machinery of association , the more easily this moves us . 
He looked at it for a moment , and put his hands to his eyes as if moved . 
I was thinking , he said indistinctly How ? What is't ? said our landlady . 
I was thinking said he who was king of England when this old pie was baked , and it made me feel bad to think how long he must have been dead . 
Our landlady is a decent body , poor , and a widow , of course CELA VA SANS DIRE . 
She told me her story once it was as if a grain of corn that had been ground and bolted had tried to individualize itself by a special narrative . 
I will thank you for the pie , if you please . 
I took more of it than was good for me as much as degrees , I should think , and had an indigestion in consequence . 
While I was suffering from it , I wrote some sadly desponding poems , and a theological essay which took a very melancholy view of creation . 
When I got better I labelled them all Pie crust , and laid them by as scarecrows and solemn warnings . 
My friend , the Professor , whom I have mentioned to you once or twice , told me yesterday that somebody had been abusing him in some of the journals of his calling . 
Now , said I , hear what I am going to say . 
It will not take many years to bring you to the period of life when men , at least the majority of writing and talking men , do nothing but praise . 
Men , like peaches and pears , grow sweet a little while before they begin to decay . 
As a general thing , I would not give a great deal for the fair words of a critic , if he is himself an author , over fifty years of age . 
Then we are ready to help others , and care less to hinder any , because nobody's elbows are in our way . 
So I am glad you have a little life left you will be saccharine enough in a few years . 
Some of the softening effects of advancing age have struck me very much in what I have heard or seen here and elsewhere . 
I just now spoke of the sweetening process that authors undergo . 
An old man , whose studies had been of the severest scholastic kind , used to love to hear little nursery stories read over and over to him . 
One who saw the Duke of Wellington in his last years describes him as very gentle in his aspect and demeanor . 
I remember a person of singularly stern and lofty bearing who became remarkably gracious and easy in all his ways in the later period of his life . 
And that leads me to say that men often remind me of pears in their way of coming to maturity . 
Some are ripe at twenty , like human Jargonelles , and must be made the most of , for their day is soon over . 
Some come into their perfect condition late , like the autumn kinds , and they last better than the summer fruit . 
Milton was a Saint Germain with a graft of the roseate Early Catherine . 
Rich , juicy , lively , fragrant , russet skinned old Chaucer was an Easter Beurre the buds of a new summer were swelling when he ripened . 
There is no power I envy so much said the divinity student as that of seeing analogies and making comparisons . 
It appears to me a sort of miraculous gift . 
He is rather a nice young man , and I think has an appreciation of the higher mental qualities remarkable for one of his years and training . 
You call it MIRACULOUS , I replied , tossing the expression with my facial eminence , a little smartly , I fear . 
The divinity student honored himself by the way in which he received this . 
to deal with at his leisure . 
Here is another remark made for his especial benefit . 
Johnson is famous for this I think it was Bulwer who said you could separate a paper in the Rambler into three distinct essays . 
Many of our writers show the same tendency , my friend , the Professor , especially . 
Some think it is in humble imitation of Johnson , some that it is for the sake of the stately sound only . 
I don't think they get to the bottom of it . 
It is a great deal easier to say this than to prove it , and a great deal easier to dispute it than to disprove it . 
I have often seen piano forte players and singers make such strange motions over their instruments or song books that I wanted to laugh at them . 
Where did our friends pick up all these fine ecstatic airs ? I would say to myself . 
Then I would remember My Lady in Marriage a la Mode , and amuse myself with thinking how affectation was the same thing in Hogarth's time and in our own . 
But one day I bought me a Canary bird and hung him up in a cage at my window . 
One little fluid particle in the crystalline prism of the solid universe ! Weaken moral obligations ? No , not weaken , but define them . 
When I preach that sermon I spoke of the other day , I shall have to lay down some principles not fully recognized in some of your text books . 
I should have to begin with one most formidable preliminary . 
But a great many of the clergyman's patients are not only fools and cowards , but also liars . 
Immense sensation at the table . 
Sudden retirement of the angular female in oxydated bombazine . 
Movement of adhesion as they say in the Chamber of Deputies on the part of the young fellow they call John . 
Our landlady to Benjamin Franklin , briskly , Go to school right off , there's a good boy ! Schoolmistress curious , takes a quick glance at divinity student . 
Divinity student slightly flushed draws his shoulders back a little , as if a big falsehood or truth had hit him in the forehead . 
I should not make such a speech as that , you know , without having pretty substantial indorsers to fall back upon , in case my credit should be disputed . 
and bring down a small volume from the left upper corner of the right hand shelves ? Look at the precious little black , ribbed backed , clean typed , vellum papered mo . 
Various names written on title page . 
'Mind what you promise ! said an acquaintance that stood near him , poking him with his elbow 'you couldn't pay for it , if you sold all your things at auction . 
I have a creed , I replied none better , and none shorter . 
It is told in two words , the two first of the Paternoster . 
And when I say these words I mean them . 
The chief planes of its enclosing solid are , of course , organization , education , condition . 
Organization may reduce the power of the will to nothing , as in some idiots and from this zero the scale mounts upwards by slight gradations . 
Education is only second to nature . 
If there is any improvement in modern theology , it is in getting out of the region of pure abstractions and taking these every day working forces into account . 
The great theological question now heaving and throbbing in the minds of Christian men is this No , I wont talk about these things now . 
My remarks might be repeated , and it would give my friends pain to see with what personal incivilities I should be visited . 
Besides , what business has a mere boarder to be talking about such things at a breakfast table ? Let him make puns . 
To be sure , he was brought up among the Christian fathers , and learned his alphabet out of a quarto Concilium Tridentinum . 
I know well enough that there are some of you who had a great deal rather see me stand on my head than use it for any purpose of thought . 
Does not my friend , the Professor , receive at least two letters a week , requesting him to . 
Laughter and tears are meant to turn the wheels of the same machinery of sensibility one is wind power , and the other water power that is all . 
It is a very dangerous thing for a literary man to indulge his love for the ridiculous . 
People laugh WITH him just so long as he amuses them but if he attempts to be serious , they must still have their laugh , and so they laugh AT him . 
There is in addition , however , a deeper reason for this than would at first appear . 
That is all very well so far as it goes , but satisfies no man , and makes a good many angry , as I told you on a former occasion . 
Oh , indeed , no ! I am not ashamed to make you laugh , occasionally . 
I think I could read you something I have in my desk which would probably make you smile . 
Perhaps I will read it one of these days , if you are patient with me when I am sentimental and reflective not just now . 
I don't doubt he would cut his kitten's tail off , if he caught her playing with it . 
There is one very sad thing in old friendships , to every mind that is really moving onward . 
It is this that one cannot help using his early friends as the seaman uses the log , to mark his progress . 
Don't misunderstand that metaphor of heaving the log , I beg you . 
We see just what we were when they were our peers , and can strike the balance between that and whatever we may feel ourselves to be now . 
No doubt we may sometimes be mistaken . 
But lo ! at dawn she is still in sight , it may be in advance of us . 
Nothing strikes one more , in the race of life , than to see how many give out in the first half of the course . 
Commencement day always reminds me of the start for the Derby , when the beautiful high bred three year olds of the season are brought up for trial . 
That day is the start , and life is the race . 
Here we are at Cambridge , and a class is just graduating . 
But this is the start , and here they are , coats bright as silk , and manes as smooth as EAU LUSTRALE can make them . 
Some of the best of the colts are pranced round , a few minutes each , to show their paces . 
First turn in the race . 
A few broken down two or three bolted . 
Several show in advance of the ruck . 
CASSOCK , a black colt , seems to be ahead of the rest those black colts commonly get the start , I have noticed , of the others , in the first quarter . 
CASSOCK has dropped from the front , and JUDEX , an iron gray , has the lead . 
DIVES , bright sorrel , ridden by the fellow in a yellow jacket , begins to make play fast is getting to be the favourite with many . 
More dropping off , but places much as before . 
All that are on the course are coming in at a walk no more running . 
We need not trouble ourselves about the distinction between this and the Paper Nautilus , the ARGONAUTA of the ancients . 
If you will look into Roget's Bridgewater Treatise , you will find a figure of one of these shells , and a section of it . 
The last will show you the series of enlarging compartments successively dwelt in by the animal that inhabits the shell , which is built in a widening spiral . 
Can you find no lesson in this ? THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS . 
I have often had the blood drop from my cheeks when it struck , and felt that I turned as white as death . 
It is an impromptu , I suppose , then , if you write it so suddenly , I replied . 
No , said he , far from it . 
I said written , but I did not say COPIED . 
Every such poem has a soul and a body , and it is the body of it , or the copy , that men read and publishers pay for . 
The soul of it is born in an instant in the poet's soul . 
Whether it will ever fully embody itself in a bridal train of a dozen stanzas or not is uncertain but it exists potentially from the instant that the poet turns pale with it . 
No wonder the ancients made the poetical impulse wholly external . 
Greek text which cannot be reproduced Goddess , Muse , divine afflatus , something outside always . 
I never wrote any verses worth reading . 
If I ever copied any that were worth reading , I was only a medium . 
I was talking all this time to our boarders , you understand , telling them what this poet told me . 
The company listened rather attentively , I thought , considering the literary character of the remarks . 
As I looked round , I was reminded of a show I once saw at the Museum , the Sleeping Beauty , I think they called it . 
The old man's sudden breaking out in this way turned every face towards him , and each kept his posture as if changed to stone . 
Our Celtic Bridget , or Biddy , is not a foolish fat scullion to burst out crying for a sentiment . 
Does a poet love the verses written through him , do you think , Sir ? said the divinity student . 
So long as they are warm from his mind , carry any of his animal heat about them , I KNOW he loves them , I answered . 
When they have had time to cool , he is more indifferent . 
A good deal as it is with buckwheat cakes , said the young fellow whom they call John . 
The last words , only , reached the ear of the economically organized female in black bombazine . 
Buckwheat is skerce and high , she remarked . 
Must be a poor relation sponging on our landlady , pays nothing , so she must stand by the guns and be ready to repel boarders . 
I liked the turn the conversation had taken , for I had some things I wanted to say , and so , after waiting a minute , I began again . 
I don't think the poems I read you sometimes can be fairly appreciated , given to you as they are in the green state . 
You don't know what I mean by the GREEN STATE ? Well , then , I will tell you . 
Certain things are good for nothing until they have been kept a long while and some are good for nothing until they have been long kept and USED . 
Of the first , wine is the illustrious and immortal example . 
Of those which must be kept and used I will name three , meerschaum pipes , violins , and poems . 
The meerschaum is but a poor affair until it has burned a thousand offerings to the cloud compelling deities . 
It comes to us without complexion or flavor , born of the sea foam , like Aphrodite , but colorless as PALLIDA MORS herself . 
First a discoloration , then a stain , and at last a rich , glowing , umber tint spreading over the whole surface . 
my grandsire won , together with a tomahawk and beaded knife sheath paying for the lot with a bullet mark on his right check . 
On the maternal side I inherit the loveliest silver mounted tobacco stopper you ever saw . 
It is a little box wood Triton , carved with charming liveliness and truth I have often compared it to a figure in Raphael's Triumph of Galatea . 
It came to me in an ancient shagreen case , how old it is I do not know , but it must have been made since Sir Walter Raleigh's time . 
If you are curious , you shall see it any day . 
Violins , too , the sweet old Amati ! the divine Stradivarius ! Played on by ancient MAESTROS until the bow hand lost its power and the flying fingers stiffened . 
Bequeathed to the passionate , young enthusiast , who made it whisper his hidden love , and cry his inarticulate longings , and scream his untold agonies , and wail his monotonous despair . 
Now I tell you a poem must be kept AND USED , like a meerschaum , or a violin . 
A poem is just as porous as the meerschaum the more porous it is , the better . 
So you see it must take time to bring the sentiment of a poem into harmony with our nature , by staining ourselves through every thought and image our being can penetrate . 
These pieces are strangers to each other , and it takes a century , more or less , to make them thoroughly acquainted . 
Besides , the wood is juicy and full of sap for fifty years or so , but at the end of fifty or a hundred more gets tolerably dry and comparatively resonant . 
The poet has forced all these words together , and fastened them , and they don't understand it at first . 
Observe , too , how the drying process takes place in the stuff of a poem just as in that of a violin . 
the sap is pretty well out of it . 
And here is the song of an old poet whom Neaera cheated . 
Nox erat , et coelo fulgebat Luna sereno Inter minora sidera , Cum tu magnorum numen laesura deorum In verba jurabas mea . 
There was silence for a brief space , after my somewhat elaborate exposition of these self evident analogies . 
Presently A PERSON turned towards me I do not choose to designate the individual and said that he rather expected my pieces had given pretty good sahtisfahction . 
I waited for a favorable opportunity , however , before making the remarks which follow . 
There are single expressions , as I have told you already , that fix a man's position for you before you have done shaking hands with him . 
Allow me to expand a little . 
There are several things , very slight in themselves , yet implying other things not so unimportant . 
Thus , your French servant has DEVALISE your premises and got caught . 
EXCUSEZ , says the SERGENT DE VILLE , as he politely relieves him of his upper garments and displays his bust in the full daylight . 
Good shoulders enough , a little marked , traces of smallpox , perhaps , but white . 
He retired unostentatiously , as many of Her Majesty's modest servants have done before and since . 
The old word of command flashes through his muscles , and his hand goes up in an instant to the place where the strap used to be . 
Yes , odd things come out in ways that nobody thinks of . 
That sounds like a cock and bull story , said the young fellow whom they call John . 
I abstained from making Hamlet's remark to Horatio , and continued . 
Not long since , the church wardens were repairing and beautifying an old Saxon church in a certain English village , and among other things thought the doors should be attended to . 
One of them particularly , the front door , looked very badly , crusted , as it were , and as if it would be all the better for scraping . 
There happened to be a microscopist in the village who had heard the old pirate story , and he took it into his head to examine the crust on this door . 
My friend , the Professor , settled an important historical and financial question once by the aid of an exceedingly minute fragment of a similar document . 
The historical question , WHO DID IT ? and the financial question , WHO PAID FOR IT ? were both settled before the new lamp was lighted the next evening . 
You see , my friends , what immense conclusions , touching our lives , our fortunes , and our sacred honor , may be reached by means of very insignificant premises . 
This is eminently true of manners and forms of speech a movement or a phrase often tells you all you want to know about a person . 
instead of , How do you do ? or , How are you ? Or calling your little dark entry a hall , and your old rickety one horse wagon a kerridge . 
Or telling a person who has been trying to please you that he has given you pretty good sahtisfahction . 
Or saying that you remember of such a thing , or that you have been stoppin at Deacon Somebody's , and other such expressions . 
One of my friends had a little marble statuette of Cupid in the parlor of his country house , bow , arrows , wings , and all complete . 
That was an exceedingly dull person who made the remark , EX PEDE HERCULEM . 
He might as well have said , From a peck of apples you may judge of the barrel . 
Possibilities , Sir ? said the divinity student can't a man who says HAOW ? arrive at distinction ? Sir , I replied , in a republic all things are possible . 
But the man WITH A FUTURE has almost of necessity sense enough to see that any odious trick of speech or manners must be got rid of . 
However , it is not for me to talk . 
I have made mistakes enough in conversation and print . 
I never find them out until they are stereotyped , and then I think they rarely escape me . 
I have no doubt I shall make half a dozen slips before this breakfast is over , and remember them all before another . 
I wonder if anybody ever finds fault with anything I say at this table when it is repeated ? I hope they do , I am sure . 
I should be very certain that I had said nothing of much significance , if they did not . 
No , I replied there is meaning in each of those images , the butterfly as well as the others . 
The stone is ancient error . 
The grass is human nature borne down and bleached of all its colour by it . 
The shapes which are found beneath are the crafty beings that thrive in darkness , and the weaker organisms kept helpless by it . 
He who turns the stone over is whosoever puts the staff of truth to the old lying incubus , no matter whether he do it with a serious face or a laughing one . 
The next year stands for the coming time . 
Then shall the nature which had lain blanched and broken rise in its full stature and native hues in the sunshine . 
Then shall God's minstrels build their nests in the hearts of a new born humanity . 
You never need think you can turn over any old falsehood without a terrible squirming and scattering of the horrid little population that dwells under it . 
Every real thought on every real subject knocks the wind out of somebody or other . 
As soon as his breath comes back , he very probably begins to expend it in hard words . 
These are the best evidence a man can have that he has said something it was time to say . 
Johnson was disappointed in the effect of one of his pamphlets . 
I think I have not been attacked enough for it , he said attack is the reaction I never think I have hit hard unless it rebounds . 
Controversy equalizes fools and wise men in the same way , AND THE FOOLS KNOW IT . 
No , but I often read what they say about other people . 
If you get one , you get the whole lot . 
What are they ? Oh , that depends a good deal on latitude and longitude . 
Epithets follow the isothermal lines pretty accurately . 
What do I think determines the set of phrases a man gets ? Well , I should say a set of influences something like these st . 
Relationships , political , religious , social , domestic . 
Oyster , in the form of suppers given to gentlemen connected with criticism . 
is clever , witty , wise , brilliant , and the rest . 
No , it isn't exactly bribery . 
One man has oysters , and another epithets . 
It is an exchange of hospitalities one gives a spread on linen , and the other on paper , that is all . 
Don't you think you and I should be apt to do just so , if we were in the critical line ? I am sure I couldn't resist the softening influences of hospitality . 
Good feeling helps society to make liars of most of us , not absolute liars , but such careless handlers of truth that its sharp corners get terribly rounded . 
I love truth as chiefest among the virtues I trust it runs in my blood but I would never be a critic , because I know I could not always tell it . 
I might write a criticism of a book that happened to please me that is another matter . 
Listen , Benjamin Franklin ! This is for you , and such others of tender age as you may tell it to . 
The cubes are of stainless ivory , and on each is written in letters of gold TRUTH . 
The spheres are the most convenient things in the world they roll with the least possible impulse just where the child would have them . 
The cubes will not roll at all they have a great talent for standing still , and always keep right side up . 
Thus he learns thus we learn to drop the streaked and speckled globes of falsehood and to hold fast the white angular blocks of truth . 
The schoolmistress was polite enough to say that she was pleased with this , and that she would read it to her little flock the next day . 
But she should tell the children , she said , that there were better reasons for truth than could be found in mere experience of its convenience and the inconvenience of lying . 
Yes , I said , but education always begins through the senses , and works up to the idea of absolute right and wrong . 
The first thing the child has to learn about this matter is , that lying is unprofitable , afterwards , that it is against the peace and dignity of the universe . 
I suppose it doesn't really deceive people any more than the Arabian Nights or Gulliver's Travels do . 
I cut a piece out of one of the papers , the other day , which contains a number of improbabilities , and , I suspect , misstatements . 
I will send up and get it for you , if you would like to hear it . 
Ah , this is it it is headed OUR SUMATRA CORRESPONDENCE . 
contained in the 'Notes and Queries . 
The principal vegetable productions of the island are the pepper tree and the bread fruit tree . 
Pepper being very abundantly produced , a benevolent society was organized in London during the last century for supplying the natives with vinegar and oysters , as an addition to that delightful condiment . 
This information was received from one of the oldest inhabitants , a native himself , and exceedingly fond of missionaries . 
He is said also to be very skilful in the CUISINE peculiar to the island . 
During the season of gathering the pepper , the persons employed are subject to various incommodities , the chief of which is violent and long continued sternutation , or sneezing . 
Such is the vehemence of these attacks , that the unfortunate subjects of them are often driven backwards for great distances at immense speed , on the well known principle of the aeolipile . 
As , during the whole pepper harvest , they feed exclusively on this stimulant , they become exceedingly irritable . 
The smallest injury is resented with ungovernable rage . 
The bread tree grows abundantly . 
Its branches are well known to Europe and America under the familiar name of MACCARONI . 
The smaller twigs are called VERMICELLI . 
They have a decided animal flavor , as may be observed in the soups containing them . 
Maccaroni , being tubular , is the favorite habitat of a very dangerous insect , which is rendered peculiarly ferocious by being boiled . 
These are commonly lost or stolen before the maccaroni arrives among us . 
It therefore always contains many of these insects , which , however , generally die of old age in the shops , so that accidents from this source are comparatively rare . 
The fruit of the bread tree consists principally of hot rolls . 
You see that many of these statements are highly improbable . 
No , I shall not mention the paper . 
No , neither of them wrote it , though it reminds me of the style of these popular writers . 
I think the fellow who wrote it must have been reading some of their stories , and got them mixed up with his history and geography . 
I don't suppose HE lies he sells it to the editor , who knows how many squares off Sumatra is . 
The Professor has been to see me . 
Came in , glorious , at about twelve o'clock , last night . 
Said he had been with the boys . 
On inquiry , found that the boys , were certain baldish and grayish old gentlemen that one sees or hears of in various important stations of society . 
The Professor is one of the same set , but he always talks as if he had been out of college about ten years , whereas . 
Each of these dots was a little nod , which the company understood , as the reader will , no doubt . 
He calls them sometimes the boys , and sometimes the old fellows . 
Call him by the latter title , and see how he likes it . 
Well , he came in last night glorious , as I was saying . 
But the Professor says he always gets tipsy on old memories at these gatherings . 
He was , I forget how many years old when he went to the meeting just turned of twenty now , he said . 
He made various youthful proposals to me , including a duet under the landlady's daughter's window . 
Offered to sing The sky is bright , accompanying himself on the front door , if I would go down and help in the chorus . 
Said there never was such a set of fellows as the old boys of the set he has been with . 
Then he began to quote Byron about Santa Croce , and maintained that he could furnish out creation in all its details from that set of his . 
with their wives and children , shipwrecked on a remote island , just to see how splendidly they would reorganize society . 
I let the Professor talk as long as he liked it didn't make much difference to me whether it was all truth , or partly made up of pale Sherry and similar elements . 
A man of iron mould might perhaps say , No ! I am not a man of iron mould , and said that I should be delighted . 
His eyesight was never better I have his word for it . 
FLASH out a stream of blood red wine ! For I would drink to other days And brighter shall their memory shine , Seen flaming through its crimson blaze . 
The roses die , the summers fade But every ghost of boyhood's dream By Nature's magic power is laid To sleep beneath this blood red stream . 
Beneath these waves of crimson lie , In rosy fetters prisoned fast , Those flitting shapes that never die , The swift winged visions of the past . 
Kiss but the crystal's mystic rim , Each shadow rends its flowery chain , Springs in a bubble from its brim And walks the chambers of the brain . 
Here , clad in burning robes , are laid Life's blossomed joys , untimely shed And here those cherished forms have strayed We miss awhile , and call them dead . 
SIN has many tools , but a lie is the handle which fits them all . 
I think , Sir , said the divinity student , you must intend that for one of the sayings of the Seven Wise Men of Boston you were speaking of the other day . 
I thank you , my young friend , was my reply , but I must say something better than that , before I could pretend to fill out the number . 
The schoolmistress wanted to know how many of these sayings there were on record , and what , and by whom said . 
Why , let us see , there is that one of Benjamin Franklin , the great Bostonian , after whom this lad was named . 
To be sure , he said a great many wise things , and I don't feel sure he didn't borrow this , he speaks as if it were old . 
But then he applied it so neatly ! He that has once done you a kindness will be more ready to do you another than he whom you yourself have obliged . 
To these must certainly be added that other saying of one of the wittiest of men Good Americans , when they die , go to Paris . 
The divinity student looked grave at this , but said nothing . 
The schoolmistress spoke out , and said she didn't think the wit meant any irreverence . 
It was only another way of saying , Paris is a heavenly place after New York or Boston . 
A civil curiosity was manifested by the company to hear the fourth wise saying . 
You couldn't pry that out of a Boston man if you had the tire of all creation straightened out for a crowbar . 
Sir , said I , I am gratified with your remark . 
It expresses with pleasing vivacity that which I have sometimes heard uttered with malignant dulness . 
The satire of the remark is essentially true of Boston , and of all other considerable and inconsiderable places with which I have had the privilege of being acquainted . 
Cockneys think London is the only place in the world . 
Frenchmen you remember the line about Paris , the Court , the World , etc . 
See Naples and then die . 
It is quite as bad with smaller places . 
I have been about , lecturing , you know , and have found the following propositions to hold true of all of them . 
The axis of the earth sticks out visibly through the centre of each and every town or city . 
Every collection of its inhabitants that comes together to listen to a stranger is invariably declared to be a remarkably intelligent audience . 
The climate of the place is particularly favorable to longevity . 
It contains several persons of vast talent little known to the world . 
I'll tell you , though , if you want to know it , what is the real offence of Boston . 
It drains a large water shed of its intellect , and will not itself be drained . 
we should be spared such epigrammatic remarks as that which the gentleman has quoted . 
There can never be a real metropolis in this country , until the biggest centre can drain the lesser ones of their talent and wealth . 
I hate little toad eating cities . 
Besides , some of the smaller cities are charming . 
I visit such spots always with infinite delight . 
My friend , the Poet , says , that rapidly growing towns are most unfavorable to the imaginative and reflective faculties . 
Do I think that the little villages have the conceit of the great towns ? I don't believe there is much difference . 
The front door is on the street . 
This front door leads into a passage which opens into an ante room , and this into the inferior apartments . 
The side door opens at once into the sacred chambers . 
There is almost always at least one key to this side door . 
This is carried for years hidden in a mother's bosom . 
Fathers , brothers , sisters , and friends , often , but by no means so universally , have duplicates of it . 
Be very careful to whom you trust one of these keys of the side door . 
The fact of possessing one renders those even who are dear to you very terrible at times . 
I am satisfied that there are as great masters of this nerve playing as Vieuxtemps or Thalberg in their lines of performance . 
Married life is the school in which the most accomplished artists in this department are found . 
A few exercises on it daily at home fit a man wonderfully for his habitual labors , and refresh him immensely as he returns from them . 
No stranger can get a great many notes of torture out of a human soul it takes one that knows it well , parent , child , brother , sister , intimate . 
Be very careful to whom you give a side door key too many have them already . 
The more wheels there are in a watch or a brain , the more trouble they are to take care of . 
The movements of exaltation which belong to genius are egotistic by their very nature . 
Observe , I am talking about MINDS . 
If one's intimate in love or friendship cannot or does not share all one's intellectual tastes or pursuits , that is a small matter . 
Intellectual companions can be found easily in men and books . 
After all , if we think of it , most of the world's loves and friendships have been between people that could not read nor spell . 
You noticed , perhaps , what I just said about the loves and friendships of illiterate persons , that is , of the human race , with a few exceptions here and there . 
I like books , I was born and bred among them , and have the easy feeling , when I get into their presence , that a stable boy has among horses . 
I don't think I undervalue them either as companions or as instructors . 
But I can't help remembering that the world's great men have not commonly been great scholars , nor its great scholars great men . 
What I wanted to say about books is this that there are times in which every active mind feels itself above any and all human books . 
I think a man must have a good opinion of himself , Sir , said the divinity student , who should feel himself above Shakspeare at any time . 
I can hardly believe there are any such men . 
Why , think for a moment of the power of music . 
in the most sensitive region of the marrow just where it is widening to run upwards into the hemispheres . 
It has its seat in the region of sense rather than of thought . 
I remember a young wife who had to part with her husband for a time . 
A great many people in this world have but one form of rhetoric for their profoundest experiences , namely , to waste away and die . 
When a man can READ , his paroxysm of feeling is passing . 
When he can READ , his thought has slackened its hold . 
A child's reading of Shakspeare is one thing , and Coleridge's or Schlegel's reading of him is another . 
The saturation point of each mind differs from that of every other . 
I think most readers of Shakspeare sometimes find themselves thrown into exalted mental conditions like those produced by music . 
Then they may drop the book , to pass at once into the region of thought without words . 
We may happen to be very dull folks , you and I , and probably are , unless there is some particular reason to suppose the contrary . 
I confess there are times when I feel like the friend I mentioned to you some time ago , I hate the very sight of a book . 
Sometimes it becomes almost a physical necessity to talk out what is in the mind , before putting anything else into it . 
It is very bad to have thoughts and feelings , which were meant to come out in talk , STRIKE IN , as they say of some complaints that ought to show outwardly . 
I always believed in life rather than in books . 
I believe the flowers growing at this moment send up more fragrance to heaven than was ever exhaled from all the essences ever distilled . 
Don't I read up various matters to talk about at this table or elsewhere ? No , that is the last thing I would do . 
I will tell you my rule . 
Talk about those subjects you have had long in your mind , and listen to what others say about subjects you have studied but recently . 
Knowledge and timber shouldn't be much used , till they are seasoned . 
Physiologists and metaphysicians have had their attention turned a good deal of late to the automatic and involuntary actions of the mind . 
Put an idea into your intelligence and leave it there an hour , a day , a year , without ever having occasion to refer to it . 
When , at last , you return to it , you do not find it as it was when acquired . 
It has domiciliated itself , so to speak , become at home , entered into relations with your other thoughts , and integrated itself with the whole fabric of the mind . 
Or take a simple and familiar example Dr . 
There are some curious observations I should like to make about the mental machinery , but I think we are getting rather didactic . 
I should be gratified , if Benjamin Franklin would let me know something of his progress in the French language . 
Yes , Paris is a famous place for societies . 
I don't know whether the piece I mentioned from the French author was intended simply as Natural History , or whether there was not a little malice in his description . 
The above remarks were addressed to the school mistress , to whom I handed the paper after looking it over . 
The divinity student came and read over her shoulder , very curious , apparently , but his eyes wandered , I thought . 
Fancying that her breathing was somewhat hurried and high , or THORACIC , as my friend , the Professor , calls it , I watched her a little more closely . 
It is none of my business . 
After all , it is the imponderables that move the world , heat , electricity , love . 
Pour devenir membre d'une de ces Societes , on doit avoir le moins de cheveux possible . 
S'il y en reste plusieurs qui resistent aux depilatoires naturelles et autres , on doit avoir quelques connaissances , n'importe dans quel genre . 
Des le moment qu'on ouvre la porte de la Societe , on a un grand interet dans toutes les choses dont on ne sait rien . 
Ainsi , un microscopiste demontre un nouveau FLEXOR du TARSE d'un MELOLONTHA VULGARIS . 
Ce qui est un spectacle plein d'instruction pour ceux qui ne sont pas de ladite Societe . 
Tous les membres regardent les chimistes en particulier avec un air d'intelligence parfaite pendant qu'ils prouvent dans un discours d'une demiheure que O N H C etc . 
font quelque chose qui n'est bonne a rien , mais qui probablement a une odeur tres desagreable , selon l'habitude des produits chimiques . 
Un naturaliste vous parle des formations speciales des animaux excessivement inconnus , dont vous n'avez jamais soupconne l'existence . 
Ainsi il vous decrit les FOLLICULES de L'APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS d'un DZIGGUETAI . 
Vous ne savez pas ce que c'est qu'un FOLLICULE . 
Vous ne savez pas ce que c'est qu'un APPENDIX UERMIFORMIS . 
Vous n'avez jamais entendu parler du DZIGGUETAI . 
Ainsi vous gagnez toutes ces connaisances a la fois , qui s'attachent a votre esprit comme l'eau adhere aux plumes d'un canard . 
On connait toutes les langues EX OFFICIO en devenant membre d'une de ces Societes . 
Ainsi quand on entend lire un Essai sur les dialectes Tchutchiens , on comprend tout cela de suite , et s'instruit enormement . 
La QUESTION est une specialite . 
Celui qui en fait metier ne fait jamais des reponses . 
Le membre a Bylaws est le bouchon de toutes les emotions mousseuses et genereuses qui se montrent dans la Societe . 
C'est un empereur manque , un tyran a la troiseme trituration . 
C'est un esprit dur , borne , exact , grand dans les petitesses , petit dans les grandeurs , selon le mot du grand Jefferson . 
On ne l'aime pas dans la Societe , mais on le respecte et on le craint . 
Il n'y a qu'un mot pour ce membre audessus de Bylaws . 
Ce mot est pour lui ce que l'Om est aux Hundous . 
C'est sa religion il n'y a rien audela . 
Ce mot la c'est la CONSTITUTION ! Lesdites Societes publient des feuilletons de tems en tems . 
On les trouve abandonnes a sa porte , nus comme des enfans nouveaunes , faute de membrane cutanee , ou meme papyracee . 
Ainsi il est clair comme la metaphysique qu'on doit devenir membre d'une Societe telle que nous decrivons . 
RECETTE POUR LE DEPILATOIRE PHYSIOPHILOSOPHIQUE Chaux vive lb . 
No , said I , I shouldn't think of printing that in English . 
As soon as you get a few thousand people together in a town , there is somebody that every sharp thing you say is sure to hit . 
What if a thing was written in Paris or in Pekin ? that makes no difference . 
Everybody in those cities , or almost everybody , has his counterpart here , and in all large places . 
You never studied AVERAGES as I have had occasion to . 
I'll tell you how I came to know so much about averages . 
There was one season when I was lecturing , commonly , five evenings in the week , through most of the lecturing period . 
I soon found , as most speakers do , that it was pleasanter to work one lecture than to keep several in hand . 
Don't you get sick to death of one lecture ? said the landlady's daughter , who had a new dress on that day , and was in spirits for conversation . 
I was going to talk about averages , I said , but I have no objection to telling you about lectures , to begin with . 
A new lecture always has a certain excitement connected with its delivery . 
One thinks well of it , as of most things fresh from his mind . 
After a few deliveries of it , one gets tired and then disgusted with its repetition . 
But this is on one condition , that he never lays the lecture down and lets it cool . 
If he does , there comes on a loathing for it which is intense , so that the sight of the old battered manuscript is as bad as sea sickness . 
A new lecture is just like any other new tool . 
We use it for a while with pleasure . 
Then it blisters our hands , and we hate to touch it . 
By and by our hands get callous , and then we have no longer any sensitiveness about it . 
But if we give it up , the calluses disappear and if we meddle with it again , we miss the novelty and get the blisters . 
The story is often quoted of Whitefield , that he said a sermon was good for nothing until it had been preached forty times . 
A lecture doesn't begin to be old until it has passed its hundredth delivery and some , I think , have doubled , if not quadrupled , that number . 
These old lectures are a man's best , commonly they improve by age , also , like the pipes , fiddles , and poems I told you of the other day . 
All this degrades him , of course , but it improves the lecture for general delivery . 
A thoroughly popular lecture ought to have nothing in it which five hundred people cannot all take in a flash , just as it is uttered . 
No , indeed , I should be very sorry to say anything disrespectful of audiences . 
I have been kindly treated by a great many , and may occasionally face one hereafter . 
But I tell you the AVERAGE intellect of five hundred persons , taken as they come , is not very high . 
It may be sound and safe , so far as it goes , but it is not very rapid or profound . 
A lecture ought to be something which all can understand , about something which interests everybody . 
But an AVERAGE , which was what I meant to speak about , is one of the most extraordinary subjects of observation and study . 
It is awful in its uniformity , in its automatic necessity of action . 
Two communities of ants or bees are exactly alike in all their actions , so far as we can see . 
Of course , if any principle of selection has come in , as in those special associations of young men which are common in cities , it deranges the uniformity of the assemblage . 
But let there be no such interfering circumstances , and one knows pretty well even the look the audience will have , before he goes in . 
Here and there a countenance , sharp and scholarlike , and a dozen pretty female ones sprinkled about . 
An indefinite number of pairs of young people , happy , but not always very attentive . 
Boys , in the background , more or less quiet . 
Dull faces here , there , in how many places ! I don't say dull PEOPLE , but faces without a ray of sympathy or a movement of expression . 
They are what kill the lecturer . 
They render LATENT any amount of vital caloric they act on our minds as those cold blooded creatures I was talking about act on our hearts . 
Each audience laughs , and each cries , in just the same places of your lecture that is , if you make one laugh or cry , you make all . 
I am not ungrateful , nor unconscious of all the good feeling and intelligence everywhere to be met with through the vast parish to which the lecturer ministers . 
Family men get dreadfully homesick . 
In the remote and bleak village the heart returns to the red blaze of the logs in one's fireplace at home . 
There are his young barbarians all at play , if he owns any youthful savages . 
No , the world has a million roosts for a man , but only one nest . 
It is a fine thing to be an oracle to which an appeal is always made in all discussions . 
What do I mean by the real talkers ? Why , the people with fresh ideas , of course , and plenty of good warm words to dress them in . 
I have known three of these men of facts , at least , who were always formidable , and one of them was tyrannical . 
Yes , a man sometimes makes a grand appearance on a particular occasion but these men knew something about almost everything , and never made mistakes . 
He ? VENEERS in first rate style . 
The talk ran upon mountains . 
By and by some Revolutionary anecdote came up , and he showed singular familiarity with the lives of the Adamses , and gave many details relating to Major Andre . 
A point of Natural History being suggested , he gave an excellent account of the air bladder of fishes . 
He was very full upon the subject of agriculture , but retired from the conversation when horticulture was introduced in the discussion . 
So he seemed well acquainted with the geology of anthracite , but did not pretend to know anything of other kinds of coal . 
Have you seen the New American Cyclopaedia ? said I. I have , he replied I received an early copy . 
How far does it go ? He turned red , and answered , To Araguay . 
Since I had this experience , I hear that somebody else has related a similar story . 
I didn't borrow it , for all that . 
I made a comparison at table some time since , which has often been quoted and received many compliments . 
It was that of the mind of a bigot to the pupil of the eye the more light you pour on it , the more it contracts . 
It is impossible to tell , in a great many cases , whether a comparison which suddenly suggests itself is a new conception or a recollection . 
But I confess I never suspected the above comparison of being old , except from the fact of its obviousness . 
I think few persons have a greater disgust for plagiarism than myself . 
But what shall I do about these verses I was going to read you ? I am afraid that half mankind would accuse me of stealing their thoughts , if I printed them . 
I can't help it , it is too late now . 
The verses are written , and you must have them . 
Listen , then , and you shall hear WHAT WE ALL THINK . 
THAT age was older once than now , In spite of locks untimely shed , Or silvered on the youthful brow That babes make love and children wed . 
That sunshine had a heavenly glow , Which faded with those good old days , When winters came with deeper snow , And autumns with a softer haze . 
That mother , sister , wife , or child The best of women each has known . 
Whene'er we groan with ache or pain , Some common ailment of the race , Though doctors think the matter plain , That ours is a peculiar case . 
That when like babes with fingers burned We count one bitter maxim more , Our lesson all the world has learned , And men are wiser than before . 
That when we sob o'er fancied woes , The angels hovering overhead Count every pitying drop that flows And love us for the tears we shed . 
THIS particular record is noteworthy principally for containing a paper by my friend , the Professor , with a poem or two annexed or intercalated . 
They can't possibly understand it all now . 
My friend , the Professor , began talking with me one day in a dreary sort of way . 
I couldn't get at the difficulty for a good while , but at last it turned out that somebody had been calling him an old man . 
He didn't mind his students calling him THE old man , he said . 
That was a technical expression , and he thought that he remembered hearing it applied to himself when he was about twenty five . 
It may be considered as a familiar and sometimes endearing appellation . 
An Irishwoman calls her husband the old man , and he returns the caressing expression by speaking of her as the old woman . 
But now , said he , just suppose a case like one of these . 
A young stranger is overheard talking of you as a very nice old gentleman . 
A friendly and genial critic speaks of your green old age as illustrating the truth of some axiom you had uttered with reference to that period of life . 
That's what I call an old man . 
What age is that ? said I , statistically . 
Fifty two years , answered the Professor . 
Balzac ought to know , said I , if it is true that Goethe said of him that each of his stories must have been dug out of a woman's heart . 
But fifty two is a high figure . 
Stand in the light of the window , Professor , said I. The Professor took up the desired position . 
You have white hairs , I said . 
Had 'em any time these twenty years , said the Professor . 
And the crow's foot , PES ANSERINUS , rather . 
The Professor smiled , as I wanted him to , and the folds radiated like the ridges of a half opened fan , from the outer corner of the eyes to the temples . 
And the calipers said I. What are the CALIPERS ? he asked , curiously . 
It's all nonsense , said the Professor just look at my BICEPS and he began pulling off his coat to show me his arm . 
Be careful , said I you can't bear exposure to the air , at your time of life , as you could once . 
Pluck survives stamina , I answered . 
The Professor went off a little out of humor . 
He had been thinking the matter over , he said , had read Cicero De Senectute , and made up his mind to meet old age half way . 
These were some of his reflections that he had written down so here you have . 
THERE is no doubt when old age begins . 
The human body is a furnace which keeps in blast three score years and ten , more or less . 
when in fair working order , according to a great chemist's estimate . 
When the fire slackens , life declines when it goes out , we are dead . 
It has been shown by some noted French experimenters , that the amount of combustion increases up to about the thirtieth year , remains stationary to about forty five , and then diminishes . 
This last is the point where old age starts from . 
The great fact of physical life is the perpetual commerce with the elements , and the fire is the measure of it . 
I don't mind much those slipshod lines Dr . 
Johnson wrote to Thrale , telling her about life's declining from THIRTY FIVE the furnace is in full blast for ten years longer , as I have said . 
The Romans came very near the mark their age of enlistment reached from seventeen to forty six years . 
Let us always behave like gentlemen when we are introduced to new acquaintance . 
Old Age , this is Mr. Professor Mr. Professor , this is Old Age . 
Mr. Professor , I hope to see you well . 
I have known you for some time , though I think you did not know me . 
Shall we walk down the street together ? PROFESSOR . 
We can talk more quietly , perhaps , in my study . 
Will you tell me how it is you seem to be acquainted with everybody you are introduced to , though he evidently considers you an entire stranger ? OLD AGE . 
I make it a rule never to force myself upon a person's recognition until I have known him at least FIVE YEARS . 
Do you mean to say that you have known me so long as that ? OLD AGE . 
I left my card on you longer ago than that , but I am afraid you never read it yet I see you have it with you . 
There , between your eyebrows , three straight lines running up and down all the probate courts know that token , Old Age , his mark . 
What message do people generally send back when you first call on them ? OLD AGE . 
Then I leave a card and go . 
Next year I call get the same answer leave another card . 
So for five or six , sometimes ten years or more . 
At last , if they don't let me in , I break in through the front door or the windows . 
We talked together in this way some time . 
No , much obliged to you , said I. I don't want those things , and I had a little rather talk with you here , privately , in my study . 
We have settled when old age begins . 
Like all Nature's processes , it is gentle and gradual in its approaches , strewed with illusions , and all its little griefs soothed by natural sedatives . 
But the iron hand is not less irresistible because it wears the velvet glove . 
One finds them always , but one rarely sees them fall . 
So it is our youth drops from us , scales off , sapless and lifeless , and lays bare the tender and immature fresh growth of old age . 
Talk about men , if you will , but spare the poor women . 
We have a brief description of seven stages of life by a remarkably good observer . 
It is very presumptuous to attempt to add to it , yet I have been struck with the fact that life admits of a natural analysis into no less than fifteen distinct periods . 
Taking the five primary divisions , infancy , childhood , youth , manhood , old age , each of these has its own three periods of immaturity , complete development , and decline . 
so does everybody and an old child shedding its milk teeth is only a little prototype of the old man shedding his permanent ones . 
Fifty or thereabouts is only the childhood , as it were , of old age the graybeard youngster must be weaned from his late suppers now . 
The infancy and childhood of commencing old age have the same ingenuous simplicity and delightful unconsciousness about them as the first stage of the earlier periods of life shows . 
The great delusion of mankind is in supposing that to be individual and exceptional which is universal and according to law . 
A person is always startled when he hears himself seriously called an old man for the first time . 
Nature gets us out of youth into manhood , as sailors are hurried on board of vessels , in a state of intoxication . 
We are hustled into maturity reeling with our passions and imaginations , and we have drifted far away from port before we awake out of our illusions . 
There is one mark of age that strikes me more than any of the physical ones I mean the formation of HABITS . 
An old man who shrinks into himself falls into ways that become as positive and as much beyond the reach of outside influences as if they were governed by clock work . 
Habit is the approximation of the animal system to the organic . 
It is a confession of failure in the highest function of being , which involves a perpetual self determination , in full view of all existing circumstances . 
But habit , you see , is an action in present circumstances from past motives . 
It is substituting a VIS A TERGO for the evolution of living force . 
Carbon is the same thing , whether you call it wood , or coal , or bread and cheese . 
Facts of chemistry are one thing , I told him , and facts of consciousness another . 
But then he had his choice whether to do his duty , or to neglect it , and save his phosphorus and other combustibles . 
It follows from all this that THE FORMATION OF HABITS ought naturally to be , as it is , the special characteristic of age . 
As for the muscular powers , they pass their maximum long before the time when the true decline of life begins , if we may judge by the experience of the ring . 
But in the mean time I have been reading the treatise , De Senectute . 
It is not long , but a leisurely performance . 
The old gentleman was sixty three years of age when he addressed it to his friend T. Pomponius Atticus , Eq . 
, a person of distinction , some two or three years older . 
Cato is the chief speaker in the dialogue . 
A good deal of it is what would be called in vulgar phrase slow . 
It unpacks and unfolds incidental illustrations which a modern writer would look at the back of , and toss each to its pigeon hole . 
I think ancient classics and ancient people are alike in the tendency to this kind of expansion . 
with some contrivance or other for people with broken kneepans . 
As the patient would be confined for a good while , he might find it dull work to sit with his hands in his lap . 
Reading , the ingenious inventor suggested , would be an agreeable mode of passing the time . 
He mentioned , in his written account of his contrivance , various works that might amuse the weary hour . 
I remember only three , Don Quixote , Tom Jones , and WATTS ON THE MIND . 
It is not generally understood that Cicero's essay was delivered as a lyceum lecture , at the Temple of Mercury . 
gave abstracts of it , one of which I have translated and modernized , as being a substitute for the analysis I intended to make . 
The lecture at the Temple of Mercury , last evening , was well attended by the ELITE of our great city . 
Two hundred thousand sestertia were thought to have been represented in the house . 
who were at length quieted after two or three had been somewhat roughly handled . 
The speaker was the well known Mark Tully , Eq . 
, the subject Old Age . 
is said by some to be derived . 
was of cheap stuff and somewhat worn , and that his general style and appearance of dress and manner were somewhat provincial . 
The lecture consisted of an imaginary dialogue between Cato and Laelius . 
We found the first portion rather heavy , and retired a few moments for refreshment . 
All want to reach old age , says Cato , and grumble when they get it therefore they are donkeys . 
There was considerable prosing as to what old age can do and can't . 
True , but not new . 
but they can tell old stories and give you good advice if they know what you have made up your mind to do when you ask them . 
a few of which are worth reporting . 
Old people are accused of being forgetful but they never forget where they have put their money . 
Nobody is so old he doesn't think he can live a year . 
The lecturer quoted an ancient maxim , Grow old early , if you would be old long , but disputed it . 
Authority , he thought , was the chief privilege of age . 
It is not great to have money , but fine to govern those that have it . 
Old age begins at FORTY SIX years , according to the common opinion . 
It is not every kind of old age or of wine that grows sour with time . 
Some excellent remarks were made on immortality , but mainly borrowed from and credited to Plato . 
Several pleasing anecdotes were told . 
Old Milo , champion of the heavy weights in his day , looked at his arms and whimpered , They are dead . 
Not so dead as you , you old fool , says Cato you never were good for anything but for your shoulders and flanks . 
Pisistratus asked Solon what made him dare to be so obstinate . 
Old age , said Solon . 
The lecture was on the whole acceptable , and a credit to our culture and civilization . 
The reporter goes on to state that there will be no lecture next week , on account of the expected combat between the bear and the barbarian . 
two to one on the bear . 
Cato learned Greek when he was old , and speaks of wishing to learn the fiddle , or some such instrument , after the example of Socrates . 
Solon learned something new , every day , in his old age , as he gloried to proclaim . 
Cyrus pointed out with pride and pleasure the trees he had planted with his own hand . 
I remember a pillar on the Duke of Northumberland's estate at Alnwick , with an inscription in similar words , if not the same . 
That , like other country pleasures , never wears out . 
None is too rich , none too poor , none too young , none too old to enjoy it . 
There is a New England story I have heard more to the point , however , than any of Cicero's . 
A young farmer was urged to set out some apple trees . 
No , said he , they are too long growing , and I don't want to plant for other people . 
The young farmer's father was spoken to about it , but he , with better reason , alleged that apple trees were slow and life was fleeting . 
At last some one mentioned it to the old grandfather of the young farmer . 
He had nothing else to do , so he stuck in some trees . 
He lived long enough to drink barrels of cider made from the apples that grew on those trees . 
As for myself , after visiting a friend lately , Do remember all the time that this is the Professor's paper . 
Ah ! but we have all gone down the hill together . 
The dandies of my time have split their waistbands and taken to high low shoes . 
By and by they began throwing white roses , and that morning flush passed away . 
At last one of the years threw a snow ball , and after that no year let the poor girls pass without throwing snow balls . 
And then came rougher missiles , ice and stones and from time to time an arrow whistled , and down went one of the poor girls . 
We always compare ourselves with our contemporaries . 
I was interrupted in my reading just here . 
Before I began at the next breakfast , I read them these verses I hope you will like them , and get a useful lesson from them . 
Though young no more , we still would dream Of beauty's dear deluding wiles The leagues of life to graybeards seem Shorter than boyhood's lingering miles . 
Who knows a woman's wild caprice ? It played with Goethe's silvered hair , And many a Holy Father's niece Has softly smoothed the papal chair . 
When sixty bids us sigh in vain To melt the heart of sweet sixteen , We think upon those ladies twain Who loved so well the tough old Dean . 
We see the Patriarch's wintry face , The maid of Egypt's dusky glow , And dream that Youth and Age embrace , As April violets fill with snow . 
Tranced in her Lord's Olympian smile His lotus loving Memphian lies , The musky daughter of the Nile With plaited hair and almond eyes . 
Flung from her eyes of purest blue , A lasso , with its leaping chain Light as a loop of larkspurs , flew O'er sense and spirit , heart and brain . 
I grant you that I burn less carbon than some years ago . 
I see people of my standing really good for nothing , decrepit , effete , LA LEVRE INFERIEURE DEJA PENDANTE , with what little life they have left mainly concentrated in their epigastrium . 
I am not , therefore , afraid to attack a new study . 
I took up a difficult language a very few years ago with good success , and think of mathematics and metaphysics by and by . 
I have opened my eyes to a good many neglected privileges and pleasures within my reach , and requiring only a little courage to enjoy them . 
I have found that some of those active exercises , which are commonly thought to belong to young folks only , may be enjoyed at a much later period . 
A young friend has lately written an admirable article in one of the journals , entitled , Saints and their Bodies . 
For the past nine years , I have rowed about , during a good part of the summer , on fresh or salt water . 
My present fleet on the river Charles consists of three row boats . 
A small flat bottomed skiff of the shape of a flat iron , kept mainly to lend to boys . 
A fancy dory for two pairs of sculls , in which I sometimes go out with my young folks . 
cracked as if we had been in the jaws of Behemoth . 
I do not deny the attraction of walking . 
I have bored this ancient city through and through in my daily travels , until I know it as an old inhabitant of a Cheshire knows his cheese . 
Watts , Alike unknowing and unknown , that nothing but a sense of duty would have prompted me to reveal the secret of its existence . 
I concede , therefore , that walking is an immeasurably fine invention , of which old age ought constantly to avail itself . 
Saddle leather is in some respects even preferable to sole leather . 
The principal objection to it is of a financial character . 
But you may be sure that Bacon and Sydenham did not recommend it for nothing . 
The brains also are shaken up like coppers in a money box . 
Instead , however , of considering these kinds of exercise in this empirical way , I will devote a brief space to an examination of them in a more scientific form . 
The pleasure of exercise is due first to a purely physical impression , and secondly to a sense of power in action . 
In all forms of active exercise there are three powers simultaneously in action , the will , the muscles , and the intellect . 
Each of these predominates in different kinds of exercise . 
In walking , the will and muscles are so accustomed to work together and perform their task with so little expenditure of force , that the intellect is left comparatively free . 
The mental pleasure in walking , as such , is in the sense of power over all our moving machinery . 
Now in this extension of my volition and my physical frame into another animal , my tyrannical instincts and my desire for heroic strength are at once gratified . 
Now let us look at the conditions of rowing . 
I won't suppose you to be disgracing yourself in one of those miserable tubs , tugging in which is to rowing the true boat what riding a cow is to bestriding an Arab . 
don't you ? Look at that model of one over my door . 
It is a kind of a giant POD , as one may say , tight everywhere , except in a little place in the middle , where you sit . 
My rowlocks are five feet apart double the greatest width of the boat . 
This , in sober earnest , is the nearest approach to flying that man has ever made or perhaps ever will make . 
As the hawk sails without flapping his pinions , so you drift with the tide when you will , in the most luxurious form of locomotion indulged to an embodied spirit . 
It has been long agreed that there is no way in which a man can accomplish so much labor with his muscles as in rowing . 
Of the females that are the mates of these males I do not here speak . 
I preached my sermon from the lay pulpit on this matter a good while ago . 
All this we cannot help but we can make the best of these influences , such as they are . 
Some of our amateur fencers , single stick players , and boxers , we have no reason to be ashamed of . 
Boxing is rough play , but not too rough for a hearty young fellow . 
Anything is better than this white blooded degeneration to which we all tend . 
I dropped into a gentlemen's sparring exhibition only last evening . 
It did my heart good to see that there were a few young and youngish youths left who could take care of their own heads in case of emergency . 
It is a fine sight , that of a gentleman resolving himself into the primitive constituents of his humanity . 
Now see that other fellow with another pair of batter puddings , the big one with the broad shoulders he will certainly knock the little man's head off , if he strikes him . 
Feinting , dodging , stopping , hitting , countering , little man's head not off yet . 
You might as well try to jump upon your own shadow as to hit the little man's intellectual features . 
He needn't have taken off the gold bowed spectacles at all . 
A bout with the gloves would let off the ill nature , and cure the indigestion , which , united , have embroiled their subject in a bitter controversy . 
There is one other delicate point I wish to speak of with reference to old age . 
I refer to the use of dioptric media which correct the diminished refracting power of the humors of the eye , in other words , spectacles . 
All I ask is a large , fair type , a strong daylight or gas light , and one yard of focal distance , and my eyes are as good as ever . 
But if YOUR eyes fail , I can tell you something encouraging . 
And now this old gentleman performs the most extraordinary feats with his pen , showing that his eyes must be a pair of microscopes . 
But now let rue tell you this . 
For him in vain the envious seasons roll Who bears eternal summer in his soul . 
The above essay was not read at one time , but in several instalments , and accompanied by various comments from different persons at the table . 
On Sunday mornings , in obedience to a feeling I am not ashamed of , I have always tried to give a more appropriate character to our conversation . 
I have never read them my sermon yet , and I don't know that I shall , as some of them might take my convictions as a personal indignity to themselves . 
He calls it I suppose , for his professional friends THE ANATOMIST'S HYMN , but I shall name it THE LIVING TEMPLE . 
See how yon beam of seeming white Is braided out of seven hued light , Yet in those lucid globes no ray By any chance shall break astray . 
Hark how the rolling surge of sound , Arches and spirals circling round , Wakes the hushed spirit through thine ear With music it is heaven to hear . 
You will find some verses to that effect at the end of these notes . 
If you are an impatient reader , skip to them at once . 
In reading aloud , omit , if you please , the sixth and seventh verses . 
These are parenthetical and digressive , and , unless your audience is of superior intelligence , will confuse them . 
Many people can ride on horseback who find it hard to get on and to get off without assistance . 
One has to dismount from an idea , and get into the saddle again , at every parenthesis . 
The old gentleman who sits opposite , finding that spring had fairly come , mounted a white hat one day , and walked into the street . 
It seems to have been a premature or otherwise exceptionable exhibition , not unlike that commemorated by the late Mr. Bayly . 
When the old gentleman came home , he looked very red in the face , and complained that he had been made sport of . 
By sympathizing questions , I learned from him that a boy had called him old daddy , and asked him when he had his hat whitewashed . 
This incident led me to make some observations at table the next morning , which I here repeat for the benefit of the readers of this record . 
The hat is the vulnerable point of the artificial integument . 
I learned this in early boyhood . 
On my way I was met by a Port chuck , as we used to call the young gentlemen of that locality , and the following dialogue ensued . 
Hullo , You sir , joo know th' wuz gon to be a race to morrah ? MYSELF . 
No. Who's gon to run , 'n' wher's't gon to be ? THE PORT CHUCK . 
Squire Mico 'n' Doctor Wiliams , round the brim o' your hat . 
Here is an axiom or two relating to it . 
A hat which has been POPPED , or exploded by being sat down upon , is never itself again afterwards . 
It is a favorite illusion of sanguine natures to believe the contrary . 
Shabby gentility has nothing so characteristic as its hat . 
There is always an unnatural calmness about its nap , and an unwholesome gloss , suggestive of a wet brush . 
The last effort of decayed fortune is expended in smoothing its dilapidated castor . 
The hat is the ULTIMUM MORIENS of respectability . 
The old gentleman took all these remarks and maxims very pleasantly , saying , however , that he had forgotten most of his French except the word for potatoes , PUMMIES DE TARE . 
ULTIMUM MORIENS , I told him , is old Italian , and signifies LAST THING TO DIE . 
I think myself fortunate in having the Poet and the Professor for my intimates . 
We are so much together , that we no doubt think and talk a good deal alike yet our points of view are in many respects individual and peculiar . 
You know me well enough by this time . 
I have not talked with you so long for nothing and therefore I don't think it necessary to draw my own portrait . 
But let me say a word or two about my friends . 
The Professor considers himself , and I consider him , a very useful and worthy kind of drudge . 
I think he has a pride in his small technicalities . 
But I'll tell you what the Professor said to the Poet the other day . 
My boy , said he , I can work a great deal cheaper than you , because I keep all my goods in the lower story . 
You have to hoist yours into the upper chambers of the brain , and let them down again to your customers . 
I take mine in at the level of the ground , and send them off from my doorstep almost without lifting . 
Coleridge knew all this very well when he advised every literary man to have a profession . 
Sometimes I like to talk with one of them , and sometimes with the other . 
After a while I get tired of both . 
Some mechanical employment is the greatest possible relief , after the purely intellectual faculties begin to tire . 
There are long seasons when I talk only with the Professor , and others when I give myself wholly up to the Poet . 
Now that my winter's work is over and spring is with us , I feel naturally drawn to the Poet's company . 
I don't know anybody more alive to life than he is . 
The passion of poetry seizes on him every spring , he says , yet oftentimes he complains , that , when he feels most , he can sing least . 
Then a fit of despondency comes over him . 
I feel ashamed , sometimes , said he , the other day , to think how far my worst songs fall below my best . 
I am grateful he continued for all such criticisms . 
A man is always pleased to have his most serious efforts praised , and the highest aspect of his nature get the most sunshine . 
If you close your eyes after looking steadily at a RED object , you see a GREEN image . 
It is so with many minds , I will not say with all . 
Still I think I can tell you what he says quite as well as he could do it . 
Oh , he said to me , one day , I am but a hand organ man , say rather , a hand organ . 
Life turns the winch , and fancy or accident pulls out the stops . 
But , dear friends , if I did not change the stop sometimes , the machine would wear out in one part and rust in another . 
How easily this or that tune flows ! you say , there must be no end of just such melodies in him . 
I will open the poor machine for you one moment , and you shall look . 
Ah ! Every note marks where a spur of steel has been driven in . 
It is easy to grind out the song , but to plant these bristling points which make it was the painful task of time . 
The more stops , the better . 
The water lily is the type of the poet's soul , he told me . 
What do you think , Sir , said the divinity student , opens the souls of poets most fully ? Why , there must be the internal force and the external stimulus . 
Neither is enough by itself . 
A rose will not flower in the dark , and a fern will not flower anywhere . 
What do I think is the true sunshine that opens the poet's corolla ? I don't like to say . 
They spoil a good many , I am afraid or at least they shine on a good many that never come to anything . 
Who are THEY ? said the schoolmistress . 
Their love first inspires the poet , and their praise is his best reward . 
The schoolmistress reddened a little , but looked pleased . 
Fit the same intellect to a man and it is a bow string , to a woman and it is a harp string . 
She is vibratile and resonant all over , so she stirs with slighter musical tremblings of the air about her . 
Nature carves with her own hands the brain which holds the creative imagination , but she casts the over sensitive creatures in scores from the same mould . 
There are two kinds of poets , just as there are two kinds of blondes . 
Movement of curiosity among our ladies at table . 
Please to tell us about those blondes , said the schoolmistress . 
Why , there are blondes who are such simply by deficiency of coloring matter , NEGATIVE or WASHED blondes , arrested by Nature on the way to become albinesses . 
The albino style carries with it a wide pupil and a sensitive retina . 
The other , or the leonine blonde , has an opaline fire in her clear eye , which the brunette can hardly match with her quick glittering glances . 
Their want of mental coloring matter makes them sensitive to those impressions which stronger minds neglect or never feel at all . 
Many of them die young , and all of them are tinged with melancholy . 
this poor fellow was a very good example of the poet by excess of sensibility . 
You remember the same thing in other words some where in Kirke White's poems . 
It is the burden of the plaintive songs of all these sweet albino poets . 
Our brains are seventy year clocks . 
The Angel of Life winds them up once for all , then closes the case , and gives the key into the hand of the Angel of the Resurrection . 
There is nothing for it , when the brain is on fire with the whirling of its wheels , but to spring against the stone wall and silence them with one crash . 
You speak trivially , but not unwisely , I said . 
They clap on the brakes by means of opium they change the maddening monotony of the rhythm by means of fermented liquors . 
He means they get drunk , said the young fellow already alluded to by name . 
Do you think men of true genius are apt to indulge in the use of inebriating fluids ? said the divinity student . 
If you think you are strong enough to bear what I am going to say , I replied , I will talk to you about this . 
If you only break them off , they grow worse than ever , and sometimes kill the person who has the misfortune to harbor one of them . 
Whence it is plain that the first thing to do is to find out where the head lies . 
Just so of all the vices , and particularly of this vice of intemperance . 
the influence of good teachers would be much greater than it is . 
For the arguments by which the Devil prevails are precisely the ones that the Devil queller most rarely answers . 
Ithuriel did not spit the toad on his spear , you remember , but touched him with it , and the blasted angel took the sad glories of his true shape . 
If he had shown fight then , the fair spirits would have known how to deal with him . 
That all spasmodic cerebral action is an evil is not perfectly clear . 
Men get fairly intoxicated with music , with poetry , with religious excitement , oftenest with love . 
Ninon de l'Enclos said she was so easily excited that her soup intoxicated her , and convalescents have been made tipsy by a beef steak . 
There are forms and stages of alcoholic exaltation which , in themselves , and without regard to their consequences , might be considered as positive improvements of the persons affected . 
The difficulty is , that the alcoholic virtues don't wash but until the water takes their colors out , the tints are very much like those of the true celestial stuff . 
Here I was interrupted by a question which I am very unwilling to report , but have confidence enough in those friends who examine these records to commit to their candor . 
Burgundy in all its sunset glow is rum . 
Champagne , the foaming wine of Eastern France , in rum . 
Sir , I repudiate the loathsome vulgarism as an insult to the first miracle wrought by the Founder of our religion ! I address myself to the company . 
I believe in temperance , nay , almost in abstinence , as a rule for healthy people . 
I trust that I practice both . 
Among the gentlemen that I have known , few , if any , were ruined by drinking . 
My few drunken acquaintances were generally ruined before they became drunkards . 
I trust the tariff of Heaven has an AD VALOREM scale for them and all of us . 
Thus the true state of creative genius is allied to REVERIE , or dreaming . 
If mind and body were both healthy and had food enough and fair play , I doubt whether any men would be more temperate than the imaginative classes . 
But body and mind often flag , perhaps they are ill made to begin with , underfed with bread or ideas , overworked , or abused in some way . 
The automatic action , by which genius wrought its wonders , fails . 
The dreaming faculties are always the dangerous ones , because their mode of action can be imitated by artificial excitement the reasoning ones are safe , because they imply continued voluntary effort . 
I think you will find it true , that , before any vice can fasten on a man , body , mind , or moral nature must be debilitated . 
The mosses and fungi gather on sickly trees , not thriving ones and the odious parasites which fasten on the human frame choose that which is already enfeebled . 
The company was curious to know what I meant . 
Why do you call them unfortunate , Sir ? asked the divinity student . 
Because it is evident that the consciousness of some imbecility or other is at the bottom of this extraordinary expression . 
I don't think , however , that these persons are commonly fools . 
I have known a number , and all of them were intelligent . 
I think nothing conveys the idea of UNDERBREEDING more than this self betraying smile . 
Yet I think this peculiar habit as well as that of MEANINGLESS BLUSHING may be fallen into by very good people who met often , or sit opposite each other at table . 
A true gentleman's face is infinitely removed from all such paltriness , calm eyed , firm mouthed . 
I think Titian understood the look of a gentleman as well as anybody that ever lived . 
Do I think these people know the peculiar look they have ? I cannot say I hope not I am afraid they would never forgive me , if they did . 
The worst of it is , the trick is catching when one meets one of these fellows , he feels a tendency to the same manifestation . 
The Professor tells me there is a muscular slip , a dependence of the PLATYSMA MYOIDES , which is called the RISORIUS SANTORINI . 
Say that once more , exclaimed the young fellow mentioned above . 
The Professor says there is a little fleshy slip called Santorini's laughing muscle . 
I would have it cut out of my face , if I were born with one of those constitutional grins upon it . 
Perhaps I am uncharitable in my judgment of those sour looking people I told you of the other day , and of these smiling folks . 
It may be that they are born with these looks , as other people are with more generally recognized deformities . 
Both are bad enough , but I had rather meet three of the scowlers than one of the smilers . 
There is another unfortunate way of looking , which is peculiar to that amiable sex we do not like to find fault with . 
There are some very pretty , but , unhappily , very ill bred women , who don't understand the law of the road with regard to handsome faces . 
The first look is necessary to define the person of the individual one meets so as to avoid it in passing . 
It is astonishing how morbidly sensitive some vulgar beauties are to the slightest demonstration of this kind . 
When we observe how the same features and style of person and character descend from generation to generation , we can believe that some inherited weakness may account for these peculiarities . 
Little snapping turtles snap so the great naturalist tells us before they are out of the egg shell . 
I am satisfied , that , much higher up in the scale of life , character is distinctly shown at the age of or months . 
My friend , the Professor , has been full of eggs lately . 
This remark excited a burst of hilarity which I did not allow to interrupt the course of my observations . 
He has been reading the great book where he found the fact about the little snapping turtles mentioned above . 
Some of the things he has told me have suggested several odd analogies enough . 
There are half a dozen men , or so , who carry in their brains the OVARIAN EGGS of the next generation's or century's civilization . 
These eggs are not ready to be laid in the form of books as yet some of them are hardly ready to be put into the form of talk . 
But as rudimentary ideas or inchoate tendencies , there they are and these are what must form the future . 
But these are the men to talk with . 
No fresh truth ever gets into a book . 
A good many fresh lies get in , anyhow , said one of the company . 
I proceeded in spite of the interruption . 
All uttered thought , my friend , the Professor , says , is of the nature of an excretion . 
It may be milk or venom to other minds but , in either case , it is something which the producer has had the use of and can part with . 
Where are the brains that are fullest of these ovarian eggs of thought ? I decline mentioning individuals . 
The divinity student looked a little puzzled at this suggestion , as if he did not see exactly where he was to come out , if he computed his arc too nicely . 
Oh , here is that copy of verses I told you about . 
The sunbeams , lost for half a year , Slant through my pane their morning rays For dry Northwesters cold and clear , The East blows in its thin blue haze . 
And first the snowdrop's bells are seen , Then close against the sheltering wall The tulip's horn of dusky green , The peony's dark unfolding ball . 
The golden chaliced crocus burns The long narcissus blades appear The cone beaked hyacinth returns , And lights her blue flamed chandelier . 
The willow's whistling lashes , wrung By the wild winds of gusty March , With sallow leaflets lightly strung , Are swaying by the tufted larch . 
The elms have robed their slender spray With full blown flower and embryo leaf Wide o'er the clasping arch of day Soars like a cloud their hoary chief . 
Nor less the flood of light that showers On beauty's changed corolla shades , The walks are gay as bridal bowers With rows of many petalled maids . 
The scarlet shell fish click and clash In the blue barrow where they slide The horseman , proud of streak and splash , Creeps homeward from his morning ride . 
Here comes the dealer's awkward string , With neck in rope and tail in knot , Rough colts , with careless country swing , In lazy walk or slouching trot . 
AQUI ESTA ENCERRADA EL ALMA DEL LICENCIADO PEDRO GARCIAS . 
But I want it now , and must use it . 
I warned all young people off the premises when I began my notes referring to old age . 
I must be equally fair with old people now . 
I am growing bolder as I write . 
I think it requires not only youth , but genius , to read this paper . 
I don't mean to imply that it required any whatsoever to talk what I have here written down . 
It did demand a certain amount of memory , and such command of the English tongue as is given by a common school education . 
So much I do claim . 
But here I have related , at length , a string of trivialities . 
You must have the imagination of a poet to transfigure them . 
My hand trembles when I offer you this . 
Many times I have come bearing flowers such as my garden grew but now I offer you this poor , brown , homely growth , you may cast it away as worthless . 
And yet and yet it is something better than flowers it is a SEED CAPSULE . 
All of us have been thirsty thousands of times , and felt , with Pindar , that water was the best of things . 
You may laugh at them , if you like . 
I shall never tell you what I think of you for so doing . 
You will find a very long aside to you almost as soon as you begin to read . 
I should like to make a few intimate revelations relating especially to my early life , if I thought you would like to hear them . 
The schoolmistress turned a little in her chair , and sat with her face directed partly towards me . 
Half mourning now purple ribbon . 
That's what made her look so pale , kept the poor dying thing alive with her own blood . 
God bless all good women ! to their soft hands and pitying hearts we must all come at last ! The schoolmistress has a better color than when she came . 
Too late ! It might have been . 
I don't deny that there was a pang in it , yes , a stab but there was a prayer , too , the Amen belonged to that . 
Male and female created He them . 
I said I should like to tell you some things , such as people commonly never tell , about my early recollections . 
Should you like to hear them ? Should we LIKE to hear them ? said the schoolmistress no , but we should love to . 
The voice was a sweet one , naturally , and had something very pleasant in its tone , just then . 
We are waiting with eagerness , Sir , said the divinity student . 
The transparency went out as if a flash of black lightning had struck it . 
If you want to hear my confessions , the next thing I said is to know whether I can trust you with them . 
It is only fair to say that there are a great many people in the world that laugh at such things . 
I think they are fools , but perhaps you don't all agree with me . 
I was born and bred , as I have told you twenty times , among books and those who knew what was in books . 
I was carefully instructed in things temporal and spiritual . 
But up to a considerable maturity of childhood I believed Raphael and Michael Angelo to have been superhuman beings . 
Why did I not ask ? you will say . 
You don't remember the rosy pudency of sensitive children . 
The first instinctive movement of the little creatures is to make a cache , and bury in it beliefs , doubts , dreams , hopes , and terrors . 
I am uncovering one of these CACHES . 
Do you think I was necessarily a greater fool and coward than another ? I was afraid of ships . 
Why , I could never tell . 
The masts looked frightfully tall , but they were not so tall as the steeple of our old yellow meeting house . 
One other source of alarm had a still more fearful significance . 
No Roman soothsayer ever had such a catalogue of OMENS as I found in the Sibylline leaves of my childhood . 
That trick of throwing a stone at a tree and attaching some mighty issue to hitting or missing , which you will find mentioned in one or more biographies , I well remember . 
Stepping on or over certain particular things or spots Dr . 
Johnson's especial weakness I got the habit of at a very early age . 
I won't swear that I have not some tendency to these not wise practices even at this present date . 
Here is one which I cannot help telling you . 
The firing of the great guns at the Navy yard is easily heard at the place where I was born and lived . 
There is a ship of war come in , they used to say , when they heard them . 
But there was no proof of it , and , of course , for a time , hopes were entertained that she might be heard from . 
This was one of those dreams that I nursed and never told . 
O. T. quitted our household carrying with him the passionate regrets of the more youthful members . 
He was an ingenious youngster wrote wonderful copies , and carved the two initials given above with great skill on all available surfaces . 
I thought , by the way , they were all gone but the other day I found them on a certain door which I will show you some time . 
How it surprised me to find them so near the ground ! I had thought the boy of no trivial dimensions . 
Well , O. T. , when he went , made a solemn promise to two of us . 
I was to have a ship , and the other a marTIN house . 
The divinity student disappeared in the midst of our talk . 
I have been led away from what I meant the portion included in these brackets to inform my readers about . 
No matter who asked it but there were circumstances which saddened and awed me . 
I had no heart to speak I faltered some miserable , perhaps petulant excuse , stole away , and the first battle of life was lost . 
What remorse followed I need not tell . 
Then and there , to the best of my knowledge , I first consciously took Sin by the hand and turned my back on Duty . 
Time has led me to look upon my offence more leniently I do not believe it or any other childish wrong is infinite , as some have pretended , but infinitely finite . 
One other acquaintance I made at an earlier period of life than the habit of romancers authorizes . 
She was a famous beauty afterwards . 
I am satisfied that many children rehearse their parts in the drama of life before they have shed all their milk teeth . 
I think I won't tell the story of the golden blonde . 
I suppose everybody has had his childish fancies but sometimes they are passionate impulses , which anticipate all the tremulous emotions belonging to a later period . 
Most children remember seeing and adoring an angel before they were a dozen years old . 
The old gentleman had left his chair opposite and taken a seat by the schoolmistress and myself , a little way from the table . 
It's true , it's true , said the old gentleman . 
He took hold of a steel watch chain , which carried a large , square gold key at one end and was supposed to have some kind of time keeper at the other . 
With some trouble he dragged up an ancient looking , thick , silver , bull's eye watch . 
The watch paper had been pink once , and had a faint tinge still , as if all its tender life had not yet quite faded out . 
Two little birds , a flower , and , in small school girl letters , a date , . 
Before I was thirteen years old , said the old gentleman . 
The old gentleman took the watch paper carefully from her , replaced it , turned away and walked out , holding the watch in his hand . 
I saw him pass the window a moment after with that foolish white hat on his head he couldn't have been thinking what he was about when he put it on . 
So the schoolmistress and I were left alone . 
I drew my chair a shade nearer to her , and continued . 
You remember , perhaps , what I said one day about smells . 
Let me tell the superstitious fancy first . 
The Puritan Sabbath , as everybody knows , began at sundown on Saturday evening . 
To such observance of it I was born and bred . 
As the large , round disk of day declined , a stillness , a solemnity , a somewhat melancholy hush came over us all . 
It was time for work to cease , and for playthings to be put away . 
The world of active life passed into the shadow of an eclipse , not to emerge until the sun should sink again beneath the horizon . 
Yes , and there was still another sound which mingled its solemn cadences with the waking and sleeping dreams of my boyhood . 
I used to wonder what this might be . 
Mingling with these inarticulate sounds in the low murmur of memory , are the echoes of certain voices I have heard at rare intervals . 
I grieve to say it , but our people , I think , have not generally agreeable voices . 
But why should I tell lies ? If my friends love me , it is because I try to tell the truth . 
I never heard but two voices in my life that frightened me by their sweetness . 
Frightened you ? said the schoolmistress . 
But I tell you this is no fiction . 
One was a chambermaid , not otherwise fascinating . 
The key of my room at a certain great hotel was missing , and this Teutonic maiden was summoned to give information respecting it . 
The simple soul was evidently not long from her mother land , and spoke with sweet uncertainty of dialect . 
I was only going to say that I should have drowned myself . 
that no person of right feeling could have hesitated for a single moment . 
The second of the ravishing voices I have heard was , as I have said , that of another German woman . 
I suppose I shall ruin myself by saying that such a voice could not have come from any Americanized human being . 
Sharp business habits , a lean soil , independence , enterprise , and east winds , are not the best things for the larynx . 
Ah , but I must not forget that dear little child I saw and heard in a French hospital . 
Between two and three years old . 
Fell out of her chair and snapped both thigh bones . 
Lying in bed , patient , gentle . 
Rough students round her , some in white aprons , looking fearfully business like but the child placid , perfectly still . 
C'EST TOUT COMME UN SERIN , said the French student at my side . 
I wish you could once hear my sister's voice , said the schoolmistress . 
If it is like yours , it must be a pleasant one , said I. I never thought mine was anything , said the schoolmistress . 
How should you know ? said I. People never hear their own voices , any more than they see their own faces . 
There is not even a looking glass for the voice . 
Of course , there is something audible to us when we speak but that something is not our own voice as it is known to all our acquaintances . 
I think , if an image spoke to us in our own tones , we should not know them in the least . 
Oh , said the schoolmistress , he must look out for my sister's heresies I am afraid he will be too busy with them to take care of mine . 
The young fellow came in and sat down in a chair , putting his heels on the top of another . 
Pooty girl , said he . 
A fine young lady , I replied . 
Keeps a first rate school , according to accounts , said he , teaches all sorts of things , Latin and Italian and music . 
Folks rich once , smashed up . 
She went right ahead as smart as if she'd been born to work . 
That's the kind o' girl I go for . 
I'd marry her , only two or three other girls would drown themselves , if I did . 
I think the above is the longest speech of this young fellow's which I have put on record . 
I do not like to change his peculiar expressions , for this is one of those cases in which the style is the man , as M. de Buffon says . 
Some days after this , when the company were together again , I talked a little . 
I don't think I have a genuine hatred for anybody . 
I am well aware that I differ herein from the sturdy English moralist and the stout American tragedian . 
One who is born with such congenital incapacity that nothing can make a gentleman of him is entitled , not to our wrath , but to our profoundest sympathy . 
That is the PRIMA FACIE aspect of the case . 
The Court of Nature assumes the law to be , that all men do so and the individual man is bound to show cause why he does not love any particular woman . 
Not the less is it true that he is bound by duty and inclined by nature to love each and every woman . 
Therefore it is that each woman virtually summons every man to show cause why he doth not love her . 
So far the old law book . 
I'll tell you how it is with the pictures of women we fall in love with at first sight . 
We a'n't talking about pictures , said the landlady's daughter , we're talking about women . 
I understood that we were speaking of love at sight , I remarked , mildly . 
But darken a chamber and let a single pencil of rays in through a key hole , then you have a picture on the wall . 
My friend , the Poet , tells me he has to leave town whenever the anniversaries come round . 
What's the difficulty ? Why , they all want him to get up and make speeches , or songs , or toasts which is just the very thing he doesn't want to do . 
He is an old story , he says , and hates to show on these occasions . 
until , by gentle pressure on that soft pulsating spot , they stupefy him to the point of acquiescence . 
That's his idea of a post prandial performance . 
These verses I am going to read you , he tells me , were pulled up by the roots just in that way , the other day . 
My friend , the Poet , says you must not read such a string of verses too literally . 
If he trimmed it nicely below , you wouldn't see the roots , he says , and he likes to keep them , and a little of the soil clinging to them . 
The Professor says he knows he can lecture , and thinks he can write verses . 
At any rate , he has often tried , and now he was determined to try again . 
You must listen to this seriously , for I think the Professor was very much in earnest when he wrote it . 
As Life's unending column pours , Two marshalled hosts are seen , Two armies on the trampled shores That Death flows black between . 
One marches to the drum beat's roll , The wide mouthed clarion's bray , And bears upon a crimson scroll , Our glory is to slay . 
One moves in silence by the stream , With sad , yet watchful eyes , Calm as the patient planet's gleam That walks the clouded skies . 
Along its front no sabres shine , No blood red pennons wave Its banner bears the single line , Our duty is to save . 
For those no death bed's lingering shade At Honor's trumpet call , With knitted brow and lifted blade In Glory's arms they fall . 
For these the blossom sprinkled turf That floods the lonely graves , When Spring rolls in her sea green surf In flowery foaming waves . 
Two paths lead upward from below , And angels wait above , Who count each burning life drop's flow , Each falling tear of Love . 
She has been walking early she has brought back two others , one on each cheek . 
I told her so , in some such pretty phrase as I could muster for the occasion . 
Those two blush roses I just spoke of turned into a couple of damasks . 
I suppose all this went through my mind , for this was what I went on to say I love the damask rose best of all . 
The flowers our mothers and sisters used to love and cherish , those which grow beneath our eaves and by our doorstep , are the ones we always love best . 
Imagine yourself reading a number of the Houyhnhnm Gazette , giving an account of such an experiment . 
THE soft hoofed semi quadruped recently captured was subjected to the art of our distinguished man tamer in presence of a numerous assembly . 
The animal was led in by two stout ponies , closely confined by straps to prevent his sudden and dangerous tricks of shoulder hitting and foot striking . 
His countenance expressed the utmost degree of ferocity and cunning . 
Its expression changed in an instant , it drew in their fragrance eagerly , and attempted to seize them with its soft split hoofs . 
Having thus quieted his suspicious subject , the operator proceeded to tie a BLUE HYACINTH to the end of the pole and held it out towards the wild animal . 
Its eyes filled as if with raindrops , and its lips trembled as it pressed them to the flower . 
After this it was perfectly quiet , and brought a measure of corn to the man tamer , without showing the least disposition to strike with the feet or hit from the shoulder . 
That will do for the Houyhnhnm Gazette . 
Why should we be more shy of repeating ourselves than the spring be tired of blossoms or the night of stars ? Look at Nature . 
She never wearies of saying over her floral pater noster . 
The Amen ! of Nature is always a flower . 
It is because you are just like me that I talk and know that you will listen . 
We are all splashed and streaked with sentiments , not with precisely the same tints , or in exactly the same patterns , but by the same hand and from the same palette . 
You love the smell of the sweet fern and the bayberry leaves , I don't doubt but I hardly think that the last bewitches you with young memories as it does me . 
For the same reason I come back to damask roses , after having raised a good many of the rarer varieties . 
I like to go to operas and concerts , but there are queer little old homely sounds that are better than music to me . 
However , I suppose it's foolish to tell such things . 
Well , now , said I , suppose a good , clean , wholesome looking countryman's cart stops opposite my door . 
Do I want any huckleberries ? If I do not , there are those that do . 
I won't say that this rushing huckleberry hail storm has not more music for me than the Anvil Chorus . 
I wonder how my great trees are coming on this summer . 
Where are your great trees , Sir ? said the divinity student . 
Oh , all round about New England . 
I call all trees mine that I have put my wedding ring on , and I have as many tree wives as Brigham Young has human ones . 
One set's as green as the other , exclaimed a boarder , who has never been identified . 
They're all Bloomers , said the young fellow called John . 
I should have rebuked this trifling with language , if our landlady's daughter had not asked me just then what I meant by putting my wedding ring on a tree . 
Don't you want to hear me talk trees a little now ? That is one of my specialities . 
So they all agreed that they should like to hear me talk about trees . 
Did you ever read old Daddy Gilpin ? Slowest of men , even of English men yet delicious in his slowness , as is the light of a sleepy eye in woman . 
Syntax was written to make fun of him . 
I have a whole set of his works , and am very proud of it , with its gray paper , and open type , and long ff , and orange juice landscapes . 
The PERE Gilpin had the kind of science I like in the study of Nature , a little less observation than White of Selborne , but a little more poetry . 
There is a mother idea in each particular kind of tree , which , if well marked , is probably embodied in the poetry of every language . 
Take the oak , for instance , and we find it always standing as a type of strength and endurance . 
At degrees the oak stops short to slant upward another degree would mark infirmity of purpose to bend downwards , weakness of organization . 
The American elm betrays something of both yet sometimes , as we shall see , puts on a certain resemblance to its sturdier neighbor . 
It won't do to be exclusive in our taste about trees . 
There is hardly one of them which has not peculiar beauties in some fitting place for it . 
I was at one period of my life much devoted to the young lady population of Rhode Island , a small , but delightful State in the neighborhood of Pawtucket . 
I heard some talk of a great elm a short distance from the locality just mentioned . 
I shall never forget my ride and my introduction to the great Johnston elm . 
I always tremble for a celebrated tree when I approach it for the first time . 
Before the measuring tape the proudest tree of them all quails and shrinks into itself . 
As I rode along the pleasant way , watching eagerly for the object of my journey , the rounded tops of the elms rose from time to time at the road side . 
The author has given my friend the Professor credit for some of his measurements , but measured this tree himself , carefully . 
The largest actual girth I have ever found at five feet from the ground is in the great elm lying a stone's throw or two north of the main road in Springfield . 
But this has much the appearance of having been formed by the union of two trunks growing side by side . 
The West Springfield elm and one upon Northampton meadows , belong also to the first class of trees . 
This is the American elm most like an oak of any I have ever seen . 
The Sheffield elm is equally remarkable for size and perfection of form . 
I have seen nothing that comes near it in Berkshire County , and few to compare with it anywhere . 
I am not sure that I remember any other first class elms in New England , but there may be many . 
What makes a first class elm ? Why , size , in the first place , and chiefly . 
Elms of the second class , generally ranging from fourteen to eighteen feet , are comparatively common . 
The queen of them all is that glorious tree near one of the churches in Springfield . 
Beautiful and stately she is beyond all praise . 
These last two have perhaps been over celebrated . 
Both , however , are pleasing vegetables . 
The poor old Pittsfield elm lives on its past reputation . 
A wig of false leaves is indispensable to make it presentable . 
circumference five feet from soil , length of line from bough end to bough end , and we will see what can be done for you . 
I wish somebody would get us up the following work SYLVA NOVANGLICA . 
Photographs of New England Elms and other Trees , taken upon the Same Scale of Magnitude . 
With Letter Press Descriptions , by a Distinguished Literary Gentleman . 
The same camera should be used , so far as possible , at a fixed distance . 
If my plan were carried out , and another series of a dozen English trees photographed on the same scale the comparison would be charming . 
Mr. Hutchinson has given us some excellent English data to begin with . 
Then I would follow this up by contrasting the various parallel forms of life in the two continents . 
Go out with me into that walk which we call THE MALL , and look at the English and American elms . 
The American elm is tall , graceful , slender sprayed , and drooping as if from languor . 
The English elm is compact , robust , holds its branches up , and carries its leaves for weeks longer than our own native tree . 
Is this typical of the creative force on the two sides of the ocean , or not ? Nothing but a careful comparison through the whole realm of life can answer this question . 
There is a parallelism without identity in the animal and vegetable life of the two continents , which favors the task of comparison in an extraordinary manner . 
Knox and other more or less wise persons have maintained . 
Will you walk out and look at those elms with me after breakfast ? I said to the schoolmistress . 
On the contrary , she turned a little pale , but smiled brightly and said , Yes , with pleasure , but she must walk towards her school . 
She went for her bonnet . 
The old gentleman opposite followed her with his eyes , and said he wished he was a young fellow . 
Presently she came down , looking very pretty in her half mourning bonnet , and carrying a school book in her hand . 
MY FIRST WALK WITH THE SCHOOLMISTRESS . 
This is the shortest way , she said , as we came to a corner . 
Then we won't take it , said I. The schoolmistress laughed a little , and said she was ten minutes early , so she could go round . 
We walked under Mr. Paddock's row of English elms . 
He was on a grave with a broad blue slate stone at its head , and a shrub growing on it . 
The stone said this was the grave of a young man who was the son of an Honorable gentleman , and who died a hundred years ago and more . 
Many years ago , when this disgraceful process was going on under my eyes , I addressed an indignant remonstrance to a leading journal . 
I have never got over it . 
Shame ! shame ! shame ! that is all I can say . 
It was on public thoroughfares , under the eye of authority , that this infamy was enacted . 
The red Indians would have known better the selectmen of an African kraal village would have had more respect for their ancestors . 
Stop before we turn away , and breathe a woman's sigh over poor Benjamin's dust . 
Love killed him , I think . 
The schoolmistress dropped a rosebud she had in her hand , through the rails , upon the grave of Benjamin Woodbridge . 
That was all her comment upon what I told her . 
How women love Love ! said I but she did not speak . 
We came opposite the head of a place or court running eastward from the main street . 
Look down there , I said , My friend the Professor lived in that house at the left hand , next the further corner , for years and years . 
He died out of it , the other day . 
Died ? said the schoolmistress . 
Certainly , said I. We die out of houses , just as we die out of our bodies . 
A commercial smash kills a hundred men's houses for them , as a railroad crash kills their mortal frames and drives out the immortal tenants . 
Men sicken of houses until at last they quit them , as the soul leaves its body when it is tired of its infirmities . 
The body has been called the house we live in the house is quite as much the body we live in . 
Shall I tell you some things the Professor said the other day ? Do ! said the schoolmistress . 
A man's body , said the Professor , is whatever is occupied by his will and his sensibility . 
The soul of a man has a series of concentric envelopes round it , like the core of an onion , or the innermost of a nest of boxes . 
First , he has his natural garment of flesh and blood . 
Then , his artificial integuments , with their true skin of solid stuffs , their cuticle of lighter tissues , and their variously tinted pigments . 
Thirdly , his domicile , be it a single chamber or a stately mansion . 
And then , the whole visible world , in which Time buttons him up as in a loose outside wrapper . 
We know this of our hats , and are always reminded of it when we happen to put them on wrong side foremost . 
We soon find that the beaver is a hollow cast of the skull , with all its irregular bumps and depressions . 
Just so all that clothes a man , even to the blue sky which caps his head , a little loosely , shapes itself to fit each particular being beneath it . 
Farmers , sailors , astronomers , poets , lovers , condemned criminals , all find it different , according to the eyes with which they severally look . 
But our houses shape themselves palpably on our inner and outer natures . 
See a householder breaking up and you will be sure of it . 
There is a shell fish which builds all manner of smaller shells into the walls of its own . 
A house is never a home until we have crusted it with the spoils of a hundred lives besides those of our own past . 
See what these are and you can tell what the occupant is . 
There is nothing that happens , you know , which must not inevitably , and which does not actually , photograph itself in every conceivable aspect and in all dimensions . 
The infinite galleries of the Past await but one brief process and all their pictures will be called out and fixed forever . 
We had a curious illustration of the great fact on a very humble scale . 
But in the midst of this picture was another , the precise outline of a map which had hung on the wall before the bookcase was built . 
We had all forgotten everything about the map until we saw its photograph on the wall . 
The Professor lived in that house a long time , not twenty years , but pretty near it . 
Did I talk all this off to the schoolmistress ? Why , no , of course not . 
I have been talking with you , the reader , for the last ten minutes . 
EXTRACT FROM MY PRIVATE JOURNAL . 
and I notice that I tell my secrets too easily when I am downhearted . 
There are inscriptions on our hearts , which , like that on Dighton Rock , are never to be seen except at dead low tide . 
The Asylum stands on a bright and breezy hill those glazed corridors are pleasant to walk in , in bad weather . 
But there are iron bars to all the windows . 
When it is fair , some of us can stroll outside that very high fence . 
The real Hall of Eblis stands on yonder summit . 
No , I must not think of such an ending ! Dying would be a much more gentlemanly way of meeting the difficulty . 
Make a will and leave her a house or two and some stocks , and other little financial conveniences , to take away her necessity for keeping school . 
It is odd enough to read over what I have just been writing . 
It is the merest fancy that ever was in the world . 
I shall never be married . 
No coffee , I hope , though , it depresses me sadly . 
I feel very miserably they must have been grinding it at home . 
Another morning walk will be good for me , and I don't doubt the schoolmistress will be glad of a little fresh air before school . 
The throbbing flushes of the poetical intermittent have been coming over me from time to time of late . 
After breakfast , one of the boarders handed me a small roll of paper containing some of the questions and their answers . 
It was asked , Why tertian and quartan fevers were like certain short lived insects . 
Some interesting physiological relation would be naturally suggested . 
The inquirer blushes to find that the answer is in the paltry equivocation , that they SKIP a day or two . 
Why an Englishman must go to the Continent to weaken his grog or punch . 
But when I came to the next question and its answer , I felt that patience ceased to be a virtue . 
I can show you the paper . 
Dear reader , I beg your pardon for repeating such things . 
This young fellow ought to have talked philosophy , I know perfectly well but he didn't , he made jokes . 
I am willing , I said , to exercise your ingenuity in a rational and contemplative manner . 
I will therefore turn this levity of yours to profit by reading you a rhymed problem , wrought out by my friend the Professor . 
THE DEACON'S MASTERPIECE OR THE WONDERFUL ONE HOSS SHAY . 
GEORGIUS SECUNDUS was then alive , Snuffy old drone from the German hive . 
That was the year when Lisbon town Saw the earth open and gulp her down , And Braddock's army was done so brown , Left without a scalp to its crown . 
It was on the terrible Earthquake day That the Deacon finished the one hoss shay . 
That was the way he put her through . 
There ! said the Deacon , naow she'll dew . 
Eighteen hundred increased by ten Hahnsum kerridge they called it then . 
Eighteen hundred and twenty came Running as usual much the same . 
Thirty and forty at last arrive , And then come fifty , and FIFTY FIVE . 
Little of all we value here Wakes on the morn of its hundredth year Without both feeling and looking queer . 
In fact , there's nothing that keeps its youth , So far as I know , but a tree and truth . 
FIRST OF NOVEMBER , the Earthquake day . 
There are traces of age in the one hoss shay . 
A general flavor of mild decay , But nothing local , as one may say . 
There couldn't be , for the Deacon's art Had made it so like in every part That there wasn't a chance for one to start . 
Now , small boys , get out of the way ! Here comes the wonderful one horse shay , Drawn by a rat tailed , ewe necked bay . 
Huddup ! said the parson . 
The parson was working his Sunday's text , Had got to FIFTHLY , and stopped perplexed At what the Moses was coming next . 
All at once the horse stood still , Close by the meet'n house on the hill . 
End of the wonderful one hoss shay . 
I think there is one habit , I said to our company a day or two afterwards worse than that of punning . 
It is the gradual substitution of cant or flash terms for words which truly characterize their objects . 
I have known several very genteel idiots whose whole vocabulary had deliquesced into some half dozen expressions . 
All things fell into one of two great categories , FAST or SLOW . 
Man's chief end was to be a BRICK . 
When the great calamities of life overtook their friends , these last were spoken of as being a GOOD DEAL CUT UP . 
Nine tenths of human existence were summed up in the single word , BORE . 
These expressions come to be the algebraic symbols of minds which have grown too weak or indolent to discriminate . 
Colleges and good for nothing smoking clubs are the places where these conversational fungi spring up most luxuriantly . 
Don't think I undervalue the proper use and application of a cant word or phrase . 
It adds piquancy to conversation , as a mushroom does to a sauce . 
I replied with my usual forbearance . 
Certainly , to give up the algebraic symbol , because A or B is often a cover for ideal nihility , would be unwise . 
all of which could have been sufficiently explained by the participle BORED . 
freely , in developing an opinion of a brother minister's discourse which would have been abundantly characterized by a peach down lipped sophomore in the one word SLOW . 
Let us discriminate , and be shy of absolute proscription . 
I am omniverbivorous by nature and training . 
Passing by such words as are poisonous , I can swallow most others , and chew such as I cannot swallow . 
Dandies are not good for much , but they are good for something . 
They invent or keep in circulation those conversational blank checks or counters just spoken of , which intellectual capitalists may sometimes find it worth their while to borrow of them . 
Yes , I like dandies well enough , on one condition . 
What is that , Sir ? said the divinity student . 
I find that lies at the bottom of all true dandyism . 
A little boy dressed up very fine , who puts his finger in his mouth and takes to crying , if other boys make fun of him , looks very silly . 
You remember that the Duke said his dandy officers were his best officers . 
The Sunday blood , the super superb sartorial equestrian of our annual Fast day , is not imposing or dangerous . 
But such fellows as Brummel and D'Orsay and Byron are not to be snubbed quite so easily . 
A good many powerful and dangerous people have had a decided dash of dandyism about them . 
There was Alcibiades , the curled son of Clinias , an accomplished young man , but what would be called a swell in these days . 
Regular dandy , he was . 
So was Marcus Antonius and though he lost his game , he played for big stakes , and it wasn't his dandyism that spoiled his chance . 
Petrarca was not to be despised as a scholar or a poet , but he was one of the same sort . 
So was Sir Humphrey Davy so was Lord Palmerston , formerly , if I am not forgetful . 
ELEGANS NASCITUR , NON FIT . 
A man is born a dandy , as he is born a poet . 
there are TOURNURES nothing can humanize , and movements nothing can subdue to the gracious suavity or elegant languor or stately serenity which belong to different styles of dandyism . 
I say , then , we are forming an aristocracy and , transitory as its individual life often is , it maintains itself tolerably , as a whole . 
Of course , money is its corner stone . 
Money kept for two or three generations transforms a race , I don't mean merely in manners and hereditary culture , but in blood and bone . 
When the spring chickens come to market I beg your pardon , that is not what I was going to speak of . 
The physical character of the next generation rises in consequence . 
The weak point in our chryso aristocracy is the same I have alluded to in connection with cheap dandyism . 
Its thorough manhood , its high caste gallantry , are not so manifest as the plate glass of its windows and the more or less legitimate heraldry of its coach panels . 
It is very curious to observe of how small account military folks are held among our Northern people . 
Our young men must gild their spurs , but they need not win them . 
The equal division of property keeps the younger sons of rich people above the necessity of military service . 
Thus the army loses an element of refinement , and the moneyed upper class forgets what it is to count heroism among its virtues . 
Still I don't believe in any aristocracy without pluck as its backbone . 
Ours may show it when the time comes , if it ever does come . 
These United States furnish the greatest market for intellectual GREEN FRUIT of all the places in the world . 
I think so , at any rate . 
There are literary green groceries at every corner , which will buy anything , from a button pear to a pine apple . 
It takes a long apprenticeship to train a whole people to reading and writing . 
The temptation of money and fame is too great for young people . 
Beware of making your moral staple consist of the negative virtues . 
It is good to abstain , and teach others to abstain , from all that is sinful or hurtful . 
But making a business of it leads to emaciation of character , unless one feeds largely also on the more nutritious diet of active sympathetic benevolence . 
I don't believe one word of what you are saying , spoke up the angular female in black bombazine . 
I am sorry you disbelieve it , Madam , I said , and added softly to my next neighbor , but you prove it . 
The young fellow sitting near me winked and the divinity student said , in an undertone , OPTIME DICTUM . 
Your talking Latin , said I , reminds me of an odd trick of one of my old tutors . 
He read so much of that language , that his English half turned into it . 
He got caught in town , one hot summer , in pretty close quarters , and wrote , or began to write , a series of city pastorals . 
Eclogues he called them , and meant to have published them by subscription . 
I remember some of his verses , if you want to hear them . 
and all such as have been through college , or , what is the same thing , received an honorary degree , will understand them without a dictionary . 
The old man had a great deal to say about aestivation , as he called it , in opposition , as one might say , to HIBERNATION . 
Intramural aestivation , or town life in summer , he would say , is a peculiar form of suspended existence , or semi asphyxia . 
One wakes up from it about the beginning of the last week in September . 
This is what I remember of his poem AESTIVATION . 
No , I am not going to say which is best . 
The one where your place is is the best for you . 
But this difference there is you can domesticate mountains , but the sea is FERAE NATURAE . 
You have noted certain trees , perhaps you know the particular zone where the hemlocks look so black in October , when the maples and beeches have faded . 
All its reliefs and intaglios have electrotyped themselves in the medallions that hang round the walls of your memory's chamber . 
The mountains give their lost children berries and water the sea mocks their thirst and lets them die . 
The mountains have a grand , stupid , lovable tranquillity the sea has a fascinating , treacherous intelligence . 
The mountains lie about like huge ruminants , their broad backs awful to look upon , but safe to handle . 
The sea smooths its silver scales until you cannot see their joints , but their shining is that of a snake's belly , after all . 
In deeper suggestiveness I find as great a difference . 
The mountains dwarf mankind and foreshorten the procession of its long generations . 
The sea drowns out humanity and time it has no sympathy with either for it belongs to eternity , and of that it sings its monotonous song forever and ever . 
Yet I should love to have a little box by the seashore . 
How much snow could you melt in an hour , if you were planted in a hogshead of it ? Comfort is essential to enjoyment . 
All sensitive people should remember that persons in easy circumstances suffer much more cold in summer that is , the warm half of the year than in winter , or the other half . 
You must cut your climate to your constitution , as much as your clothing to your shape . 
After this , consult your taste and convenient . 
But if you would be happy in Berkshire , you must carry mountains in your brain and if you would enjoy Nahant , you must have an ocean in your soul . 
Nature plays at dominos with you you must match her piece , or she will never give it up to you . 
You are right , I think , however , in recognizing the category of Space as being quite as applicable to minds as to the outer world . 
Every man of reflection is vaguely conscious of an imperfectly defined circle which is drawn about his intellect . 
He has a perfectly clear sense that the fragments of his intellectual circle include the curves of many other minds of which he is cognizant . 
He often recognizes these as manifestly concentric with his own , but of less radius . 
Every now and then a man's mind is stretched by a new idea or sensation , and never shrinks back to its former dimensions . 
If I thought I should ever see the Alps ! said the schoolmistress . 
Perhaps you will , some time or other , I said . 
It is not very likely , she answered . 
I have had one or two opportunities , but I had rather be anything than governess in a rich family . 
Proud , too , you little soft voiced woman ! Well , I can't say I like you any the worse for it . 
Mont Blanc in full view . 
had come down in front of it by the run . 
Should you like to hear what moderate wishes life brings one to at last ? I used to be very ambitious , wasteful , extravagant , and luxurious in all my fancies . 
Read too much in the Arabian Nights . 
Must have the lamp , couldn't do without the ring . 
Exercise every morning on the brazen horse . 
Plump down into castles as full of little milk white princesses as a nest is of young sparrows . 
All love me dearly at once . 
Charming idea of life , but too high colored for the reality . 
I have outgrown all this my tastes have become exceedingly primitive , almost , perhaps , ascetic . 
We carry happiness into our condition , but must not hope to find it there . 
I think you will be willing to hear some lines which embody the subdued and limited desires of my maturity . 
Man wants but little here below . 
That I may call my own And close at hand is such a one , In yonder street that fronts the sun . 
Plain food is quite enough for me Three courses are as good as ten If Nature can subsist on three , Thank heaven for three . 
Amen ! I always thought cold victual nice My CHOICE would be vanilla ice . 
Honors are silly toys , I know , And titles are but empty names I would , PERHAPS , be Plenipo , But only near St . 
James I'm very sure I should not care To fill our Gubernator's chair . 
I own perhaps I MIGHT desire Some shawls of true cashmere , Some marrowy crapes of China silk , Like wrinkled skins on scalded milk . 
I can't say just how many walks she and I had taken together before this one . 
I found the effect of going out every morning was decidedly favorable on her health . 
I am afraid I did the greater part of the talking . 
I would have a woman as true as Death . 
Love capacity is a congenital endowment and I think , after a while , one gets to know the warm hued natures it belongs to from the pretty pipe clay counterfeits of them . 
Middle , and more than middle aged people , who know family histories , generally see through it . 
An official of standing was rude to me once . 
Oh , that is the maternal grandfather , said a wise old friend to me , he was a boor . 
Better too few words , from the woman we love , than too many while she is silent , Nature is working for her while she talks , she is working for herself . 
Love is sparingly soluble in the words of men therefore they speak much of it but one syllable of woman's speech can dissolve more of it than a man's heart can hold . 
Wise men have said more foolish things , and foolish men , I don't doubt , have said as wise things . 
Anyhow , the schoolmistress and I had pleasant walks and long talks , all of which I do not feel bound to report . 
You are a stranger to me , Ma'am . 
I don't doubt you would like to know all I said to the schoolmistress . 
I sha'n't do it I had rather get the publishers to return the money you have invested in this . 
Besides , I have forgotten a good deal of it . 
I shall tell only what I like of what I remember . 
My idea was , in the first place , to search out the picturesque spots which the city affords a sight of , to those who have eyes . 
I know a good many , and it was a pleasure to look at them in company with my young friend . 
There were the shrubs and flowers in the Franklin Place front yards or borders Commerce is just putting his granite foot upon them . 
Then the great elms in Essex Street . 
and look as if they were whispering , May grace , mercy , and peace be with you ! and the rest of that benediction . 
But then the Professor has one of his burrows in that region , and puts everything in high colors relating to it . 
That is his way about everything . 
I hold any man cheap , he said , of whom nothing stronger can be uttered than that all his geese are swans . 
How is that , Professor ? said I I should have set you down for one of that sort . 
And the Professor showed the whites of his eyes devoutly , like one returning thanks after a dinner of many courses . 
I don't know anything sweeter than this leaking in of Nature through all the cracks in the walls and floors of cities . 
You heap up a million tons of hewn rocks on a square mile or two of earth which was green once . 
So the small herbs pack themselves up in the least possible bundles , and wait until the wind steals to them at night and whispers , Come with me . 
At last the trees take up their solemn line of march , and never rest until they have encamped in the market place . 
Wait long enough and you will find an old doting oak hugging a huge worn block in its yellow underground arms that was the cornerstone of the State House . 
Oh , so patient she is , this imperturbable Nature ! Let us cry ! But all this has nothing to do with my walks and talks with the schoolmistress . 
I did not say that I would not tell you something about them . 
Let me alone , and I shall talk to you more than I ought to , probably . 
We never tell our secrets to people that pump for them . 
Books we talked about , and education . 
It was her duty to know something of these , and of course she did . 
Perhaps I was somewhat more learned than she , but I found that the difference between her reading and mine was like that of a man's and a woman's dusting a library . 
The man flaps about with a bunch of feathers the woman goes to work softly with a cloth . 
Books are the NEGATIVE pictures of thought , and the more sensitive the mind that receives their images , the more nicely the finest lines are reproduced . 
reading after a man , follows him as Ruth followed the reapers of Boaz , and her gleanings are often the finest of the wheat . 
But it was in talking of Life that we came most clearly together . 
I thought I knew something about that , that I could speak or write about it somewhat to the purpose . 
All this I thought my power and province . 
The schoolmistress had tried life , too . 
Once in a while one meets with a single soul greater than all the living pageant which passes before it . 
This was one of them . 
Fortune had left her , sorrow had baptized her the routine of labor and the loneliness of almost friendless city life were before her . 
I never addressed one word of love to the schoolmistress in the course of these pleasant walks . 
It seemed to me that we talked of everything but love on that particular morning . 
There was , perhaps , a little more timidity and hesitancy on my part than I have commonly shown among our people at the boarding house . 
In fact , I considered myself the master at the breakfast table but , somehow , I could not command myself just then so well as usual . 
The schoolmistress knew nothing about all this , of course , as yet . 
It was on the Common that we were walking . 
The MALL , or boulevard of our Common , you know , has various branches leading from it in different directions . 
One of these runs down from opposite Joy Street southward across the whole length of the Common to Boylston Street . 
We called it the long path , and were fond of it . 
as we came opposite the head of this path on that morning . 
I think I tried to speak twice without making myself distinctly audible . 
At last I got out the question , Will you take the long path with me ? Certainly , said the schoolmistress , with much pleasure . 
One of the long granite blocks used as seats was hard by , the one you may still see close by the Gingko tree . 
Pray , sit down , I said . 
We're very free and easy , you know we don't read what we don't like . 
Our parish is so large , one can't pretend to preach to all the pews at once . 
Let them wash some of those lower story windows a little . 
Besides , there is no use in our quarrelling now , as you will find out when you get through this paper . 
Travel , according to my experience , does not exactly correspond to the idea one gets of it out of most books of travels . 
I am thinking of travel as it was when I made the Grand Tour , especially in Italy . 
Memory is a net one finds it full of fish when he takes it from the brook but a dozen miles of water have run through it without sticking . 
I can prove some facts about travelling by a story or two . 
There are certain principles to be assumed , such as these He who is carried by horses must deal with rogues . 
To day's dinner subtends a larger visual angle than yesterday's revolution . 
A mote in my eye is bigger to me than the biggest of Dr . 
Every traveller is a self taught entomologist . 
There was a story about strahps to your pahnts , which was vastly funny to us fellows on the road from Milan to Venice . 
CAELUM , NON ANIMUM , travellers change their guineas , but not their characters . 
The bore is the same , eating dates under the cedars of Lebanon , as over a plate of baked beans in Beacon Street . 
Parties of travellers have a morbid instinct for establishing raws upon each other . 
Lively emotions very commonly do not strike us full in front , but obliquely from the side a scene or incident in UNDRESS often affects us more than one in full costume . 
Is this the mighty ocean ? is this all ? says the Princess in Gebir . 
The rush that should have flooded my soul in the Coliseum did not come . 
I used very often , when coming home from my morning's work at one of the public institutions of Paris , to stop in at the dear old church of St . 
These things I mention from memory , but not all of them together impressed me so much as an inscription on a small slab of marble fixed in one of the walls . 
It told how this church of St . 
fell from the gallery , carrying a part of the balustrade with them , to the pavement , but by a miracle escaped uninjured . 
Not the great historical events , but the personal incidents that call up single sharp pictures of some human being in its pang or struggle , reach us most nearly . 
I have forgotten the famous bears , and all else . 
Arrow heads must be brought to a sharp point , and the guillotine axe must have a slanting edge . 
Something intensely human , narrow , and definate pierces to the seat of our sensibilities more readily than huge occurrences and catastrophes . 
A nail will pick a lock that defies hatchet and hammer . 
My telling these recollections sets me thinking of others of the same kind which strike the imagination , especially when one is still young . 
You remember the monument in Devizes market to the woman struck dead with a lie in her mouth . 
I never saw that , but it is in the books . 
Here is one I never heard mentioned if any of the Note and Query tribe can tell the story , I hope they will . 
of considerable size and pretensions . 
What is that ? I said . 
That , answered the coachman , is THE HANGMAN'S PILLAR . 
Then he told me how a man went out one night , many years ago , to steal sheep . 
He caught one , tied its legs together , passed the rope over his head , and started for home . 
In climbing a fence , the rope slipped , caught him by the neck , and strangled him . 
I will send a copy of this record to him or her who shall first set me right about this column and its locality . 
And telling over these old stories reminds me that I have something which may interest architects and perhaps some other persons . 
I once ascended the spire of Strasburg Cathedral , which is the highest , I think , in Europe . 
It is a shaft of stone filigree work , frightfully open , so that the guide puts his arms behind you to keep you from falling . 
To climb it is a noonday nightmare , and to think of having climbed it crisps all the fifty six joints of one's twenty digits . 
While I was on it , pinnacled dim in the intense inane , a strong wind was blowing , and I felt sure that the spire was rocking . 
It swayed back and forward like a stalk of rye or a cat o'nine tails with a bobolink on it . 
I mentioned it to the guide , and he said that the spire did really swing back and forward , I think he said some feet . 
Keep any line of knowledge ten years and some other line will intersect it . 
when I stumbled upon a brief article on the vibrations of the spire of Strasburg Cathedral . 
swinging like a reed , in a wind , but one would hardly think of such a thing's happening in a stone spire . 
Does the Bunker Hill Monument bend in the blast like a blade of grass ? I suppose so . 
You see , of course , that I am talking in a cheap way perhaps we will have some philosophy by and by let me work out this thin mechanical vein . 
I have something more to say about trees . 
I have brought down this slice of hemlock to show you . 
Tree blew down in my woods in . 
Twelve feet and a half round , fair girth nine feet , where I got my section , higher up . 
This is a wedge , going to the centre , of the general shape of a slice of apple pie in a large and not opulent family . 
Length , about eighteen inches . 
I have studied the growth of this tree by its rings , and it is curious . 
Three hundred and forty two rings . 
Started , therefore , about . 
The thickness of the rings tells the rate at which it grew . 
For five or six years the rate was slow , then rapid for twenty years . 
A little before the year it began to grow very slowly , and so continued for about seventy years . 
Here are some human lives laid down against the periods of its growth , to which they corresponded . 
The tree was seven inches in diameter when he was born ten inches when he died . 
A little less than ten inches when Milton was born seventeen when he died . 
Then comes a long interval , and this thread marks out Johnson's life , during which the tree increased from twenty two to twenty nine inches in diameter . 
Here is the span of Napoleon's career the tree doesn't seem to have minded it . 
I never saw the man yet who was not startled at looking on this section . 
I have seen many wooden preachers , never one like this . 
A relative tells me there is one of great glory in Andover , near Bradford . 
I have some recollections of the former place , pleasant and other . 
I wonder if the old Seminary clock strikes as slowly as it used to . 
My room mate thought , when he first came , it was the bell tolling deaths , and people's ages , as they do in the country . 
and to have grown round its hoops and buried them in its wood . 
Of course , this is not the tree my relative means . 
Also , I have a very pretty letter from Norwich , in Connecticut , telling me of two noble elms which are to be seen in that town . 
But I had it in memory , and even noted down , as one of the finest trees in symmetry and beauty I had ever seen . 
The tree girts eighteen and a half feet , and spreads over a hundred , and is a real beauty . 
I hope to meet my friend under its branches yet if we don't have youth at the prow , we will have pleasure at the 'elm . 
And just now , again , I have got a letter about some grand willows in Maine , and another about an elm in Wayland , but too late for anything but thanks . 
And this leads me to say , that I have received a great many communications , in prose and verse since I began printing these notes . 
The last came this very morning , in the shape of a neat and brief poem , from New Orleans . 
I could not make any of them public , though sometimes requested to do so . 
Some of them have given me great pleasure , and encouraged me to believe I had friends whose faces I had never seen . 
I purr very loud over a good , honest letter that says pretty things to me . 
Here is a letter I wrote to one of these young folks , but , on the whole , thought it best not to send . 
It is not fair to single out one for such sharp advice , where there are hundreds that are in need of it . 
DEAR SIR , You seem to be somewhat , but not a great deal , wiser than I was at your age . 
You long to leap at a single bound into celebrity . 
Nothing is so common place as to wish to be remarkable . 
If you have the consciousness of genius , do something to show it . 
Produce anything really good , and an intelligent editor will jump at it . 
Don't flatter yourself that any article of yours is rejected because you are unknown to fame . 
Nothing pleases an editor more than to get anything worth having from a new hand . 
The contrary is of course probable , but it is not demonstrated . 
If you have , the world wants you more than you want it . 
QU'EST CE QU'IL A FAIT ? What has he done ? That was Napoleon's test . 
Do the prettiest thing you can and wait your time . 
For the verses you send me , I will not say they are hopeless , and I dare not affirm that they show promise . 
I am not an editor , but I know the standard of some editors . 
You must not expect to leap with a single bound into the society of those whom it is not flattery to call your betters . 
If you prefer the long jolting of public opinion to the gentle touch of friendship , try it like a man . 
Only remember this , that , if a bushel of potatoes is shaken in a market cart without springs to it , the small potatoes always get to the bottom . 
Is a young man in the habit of writing verses ? Then the presumption is that he is an inferior person . 
For , look you , there are at least nine chances in ten that he writes POOR verses . 
A young man can get rid of the presumption against him afforded by his writing verses only by convincing us that they are verses worth writing . 
All this sounds hard and rough , but , observe , it is not addressed to any individual , and of course does not refer to any reader of these pages . 
I would always treat any given young person passing through the meteoric showers which rain down on the brief period of adolescence with great tenderness . 
I have always tried to be gentle with the most hopeless cases . 
My experience , however , has not been encouraging . 
two or three times , falls to souling and controlling , and youthing and truthing , in the newspapers . 
Wishes my opinion of the same , with advice as to his future course . 
Not the least use in all this . 
The poetaster who has tasted type is done for . 
He is like the man who has once been a candidate for the Presidency . 
He feeds on the madder of his delusion all his days , and his very bones grow red with the glow of his foolish fancy . 
I have two letters on file one is a pattern of adulation , the other of impertinence . 
My reply to the first , containing the best advice I could give , conveyed in courteous language , had brought out the second . 
There was some sport in this , but Dulness is not commonly a game fish , and only sulks after he is struck . 
You may set it down as a truth which admits of few exceptions , that those who ask your OPINION really want your PRAISE , and will be contented with nothing less . 
There is another kind of application to which editors , or those supposed to have access to them , are liable , and which often proves trying and painful . 
One is appealed to in behalf of some person in needy circumstances who wishes to make a living by the pen . 
A manuscript accompanying the letter is offered for publication . 
It is not commonly brilliant , too often lamentably deficient . 
Now an editor is a person under a contract with the public to furnish them with the best things he can afford for his money . 
Though I am not and never was an editor , I know something of the trials to which they are submitted . 
They have nothing to do but to develope enormous calluses at every point of contact with authorship . 
Their business is not a matter of sympathy , but of intellect . 
They must reject the unfit productions of those whom they long to befriend , because it would be a profligate charity to accept them . 
One cannot burn his house down to warm the hands even of the fatherless and the widow . 
He spoke to me once or twice about another poem of similar character he wanted to read me , which I told him I would listen to and criticize . 
One day , after dinner , he came in with his face tied up , looking very red in the cheeks and heavy about the eyes . 
A certain suspicion had come into my mind that the Professor was not quite right , which was confirmed by the way he talked but I let him begin . 
This is the way he read it PRELUDE . 
I'M the fellah that tole one day The tale of the won'erful one hoss shay . 
Wan' to hear another ? Say . 
Don' you b'lieve the'z no more fat Lots in the kitch'n 'z good 'z that . 
Professor , I said , you are inebriated . 
The style of what you call your Prelude shows that it was written under cerebral excitement . 
You smell distinctly and decidedly of spirits . 
I spoke , and paused tender , but firm . 
He held it up for me to look at , and lifted his eyes , brimful , till they met mine . 
Upset his alcohol lamp , he said , and spilt the alcohol on his legs . 
PARSON TURELL'S LEGACY OR THE PRESIDENT'S OLD ARM CHAIR . 
FACTS respecting an old arm chair . 
Is kept in the College there . 
Seems but little the worse for wear . 
That's remarkable when I say It was old in President Holyoke's day . 
HE took lodging for rain or shine Under green bed clothes in . 
Know old Cambridge ? Hope you do . 
Born there ? Don't say so ! I was , too . 
Nicest place that ever was seen , Colleges red and Common green , Sidewalks brownish with trees between . 
Sweetest spot beneath the skies When the canker worms don't rise , When the dust , that sometimes flies Into your mouth and ears and eyes . 
In a quiet slumber lies , NOT in the shape of unbaked pies Such as barefoot children prize . 
A kind of harber it seems to be , Facing the flow of a boundless sea . 
But this is neither here nor there I'm talking about an old arm chair . 
But one Crown lesse then he gave to claime , That being his Debte for use of same . 
SMITH transferred it to one of the BROWNS , And took his money , five silver crowns . 
BROWN delivered it up to MOORE , Who paid , it is plain , not five , but four . 
MOORE made over the chair to LEE , Who gave him crowns of silver three . 
LEE conveyed it unto DREW , And now the payment , of course , was two . 
DREW gave up the chair to DUNN , All he got , as you see , was one . 
DUNN released the chair to HALL , And got by the bargain no crown at all . 
And now it passed to a second BROWN , Who took it , and likewise CLAIMED A CROWN . 
He paid one POTTER , who took it , three . 
By and by the wars were still , But nothing had altered the Parson's will . 
What should be done no man could tell , For the chair was a kind of nightmare curse , And every season but made it worse . 
As a last resort , to clear the doubt , They got old GOVERNOR HANCOCK out . 
The Governor hefted the crowns , and said , A will is a will , and the Parson's dead . 
The Governor hefted the crowns . 
Said he , There is your p'int . 
These are the terms you must fulfil , On such conditions I BREAK THE WILL ! The Governor mentioned what these should be . 
Once a year , on Commencement day , If you'll only take the pains to stay , You'll see the President in the CHAIR , Likewise the Governor sitting there . 
next is called by name He bows like t'other , which means the same . 
And all the officers round 'em bow , As much as to say that THEY allow . 
And a lot of parchments about the chair Are handed to witnesses then and there , And then the lawyers hold it clear That the chair is safe for another year . 
God bless you , Gentlemen ! Learn to give Money to colleges while you live . 
The shade of a palm tree serves an African for a hut his dwelling is all door and no walls everybody can come in . 
One might , very probably , trace a regular gradation between these two extremes . 
A good deal , which in colder regions is ascribed to mean dispositions , belongs really to mean temperature . 
Do you not remember something like this ? July , between and , P. M. , Fahrenheit degrees , or thereabout . 
Windows all gaping , like the mouths of panting dogs . 
Long , stinging cry of a locust comes in from a tree , half a mile off had forgotten there was such a tree . 
Baby's screams from a house several blocks distant never knew there were any babies in the neighborhood before . 
Tinman pounding something that clatters dreadfully , very distinct , but don't remember any tinman's shop near by . 
Horses stamping on pavement to get off flies . 
When you hear these four sounds , you may set it down as a warm day . 
I see some of the London journals have been attacking some of their literary people for lecturing , on the ground of its being a public exhibition of themselves for money . 
A popular author can print his lecture if he deliver it , it is a case of QUAESTUM CORPORE , or making profit of his person . 
None but snobs do that . 
To this I reply , NEGATUR MINOR . 
Her Most Gracious Majesty , the Queen , exhibits herself to the public as a part of the service for which she is paid . 
We do not consider it low bred in her to pronounce her own speech , and should prefer it so to hearing it from any other person , or reading it . 
His Grace and his Lordship exhibit themselves very often for popularity , and their houses every day for money . 
No , if a man shows himself other than he is , if he belittles himself before an audience for hire , then he acts unworthily . 
The taunt must be an outbreak of jealousy against the renowned authors who have the audacity to be also orators . 
stick a too popular writer and speaker with an epithet in England , instead of with a rapier , as in France . 
Yes , that was my last walk with the SCHOOLMISTRESS . 
So it was no longer the schoolmistress that I walked with , but Let us not be in unseemly haste . 
I shall call her the schoolmistress still some of you love her under that name . 
I confess I pitied our landlady . 
It took her all of a suddin , she said . 
Had not known that we was keepin company , and never mistrusted anything particular . 
Ma'am was right to better herself . 
Didn't look very rugged to take care of a femily , but could get hired haalp , she calc'lated . 
The great maternal instinct came crowding up in her soul just then , and her eyes wandered until they settled on her daughter . 
No , poor , dear woman , that could not have been . 
But I am dropping one of my internal tears for you , with this pleasant smile on my face all the time . 
The great mystery of God's providence is the permitted crushing out of flowering instincts . 
Life is maintained by the respiration of oxygen and of sentiments . 
I never saw the accursed trick performed . 
Then it is that Society places its transparent bell glass over the young woman who is to be the subject of one of its fatal experiments . 
The element by which only the heart lives is sucked out of her crystalline prison . 
Watch her through its transparent walls her bosom is heaving but it is in a vacuum . 
Death is no riddle , compared to this . 
I remember a poor girl's story in the Book of Martyrs . 
The dry pan and the gradual fire were the images that frightened her most . 
But it is only my surface thought which laughs . 
Somewhere , somewhere , love is in store for them , the universe must not be allowed to fool them so cruelly . 
Will you hear a few stanzas of mine ? THE VOICELESS . 
I see no reason why this young woman should not be a very proper match for a man that laughs about Boston State house . 
He can't be very particular . 
The young fellow whom I have so often mentioned was a little free in his remarks , but very good natured . 
Sorry to have you go , he said . 
School ma'am made a mistake not to wait for me . 
Haven't taken anything but mournin' fruit at breakfast since I heard of it . 
The conceit seemed to please the young fellow . 
If you will believe it , when we came down to breakfast the next morning , he had carried it out as follows . 
you know these small , deep dishes , I say . 
When we came down the next morning , each of these was covered with a broad leaf . 
On lifting this , each boarder found a small heap of solemn black huckleberries . 
But one of those plates held red currants , and was covered with a red rose the other held white currants , and was covered with a white rose . 
The hand I held trembled in mine , and the eyes fell meekly , as Esther bowed herself before the feet of Ahasuerus . 
That quotation from Scripture was cut short , anyhow . 
We came to a compromise on the great question , and the time was settled for the last day of summer . 
In the mean time , I talked on with our boarders , much as usual , as you may see by what I have reported . 
I must say , I was pleased with a certain tenderness they all showed toward us , after the first excitement of the news was over . 
It came out in trivial matters , but each one , in his or her way , manifested kindness . 
Our landlady , for instance , when we had chickens , sent the LIVER instead of the GIZZARD , with the wing , for the schoolmistress . 
This was not an accident the two are never mistaken , though some landladies APPEAR as if they did not know the difference . 
The whole of the company were even more respectfully attentive to my remarks than usual . 
In fact , they all behaved very handsomely , so that I really felt sorry at the thought of leaving my boarding house . 
I suppose you think , that , because I lived at a plain widow woman's plain table , I was of course more or less infirm in point of worldly fortune . 
That was an enjoyment I was now ready for . 
I began abruptly Do you know that you are a rich young person ? I know that I am very rich , she said . 
Heaven has given me more than I ever asked for I had not thought love was ever meant for me . 
It was a woman's confession , and her voice fell to a whisper as it threaded the last words . 
And I looked full in her eyes for the effect of the announcement . 
She said she was thankful that I had what would save me from drudgery , and that some other time I should tell her about it . 
I never made a greater failure in an attempt to produce a sensation . 
So the last day of summer came . 
It was our choice to go to the church , but we had a kind of reception at the boarding house . 
The landlady's daughter sent a richly bound copy of Tupper's Poems . 
On a blank leaf was the following , written in a very delicate and careful hand Presented to . 
On the eve ere her union in holy matrimony . 
From the divinity student came the loveliest English edition of Keble's Christian Year . 
Talk about it as much as you like , one's breeding shows itself nowhere more than in his religion . 
My laughing and winking young friend undertook to procure and arrange the flowers for the table , and did it with immense zeal . 
One of the last things that came was an old square box , smelling of camphor , tied and sealed . 
It bore , in faded ink , the marks , Calcutta , . 
It was my last breakfast as a boarder , and I could not leave them in utter silence . 
Good by , I said , my dear friends , one and all of you ! I have been long with you , and I find it hard parting . 
has given me reason to suppose that he would occupy my empty chair about the first of January next . 
If he comes among you , be kind to him , as you have been to me . 
May the Lord bless you all ! And we shook hands all round the table . 
Half an hour afterwards the breakfast things and the cloth were gone . 
I looked up and down the length of the bare boards over which I had so often uttered my sentiments and experiences and Yes , I am a man , like another . 
And now we two are walking the long path in peace together . 
The schoolmistress finds her skill in teaching called for again , without going abroad to seek little scholars . 
Those visions of mine have all come true . 
I hope you all love me none the less for anything I have told you . 
