Note I have omitted the running heads A FAMILIAR PREFACE and A PERSONAL RECORD , and have made the following changes to the text PAGE LINE ORIGINAL CHANGED TO thinkin thinking now now . 
I defended myself with some spirit but , with characteristic tenacity , the friendly voice insisted , You know , you really must . 
It was not an argument , but I submitted at once . 
You perceive the force of a word . 
He who wants to persuade should put his trust not in the right argument , but in the right word . 
The power of sound has always been greater than the power of sense . 
I don't say this by way of disparagement . 
It is better for mankind to be impressionable than reflective . 
Nothing humanely great great , I mean , as affecting a whole mass of lives has come from reflection . 
On the other hand , you cannot fail to see the power of mere words such words as Glory , for instance , or Pity . 
I won't mention any more . 
They are not far to seek . 
There's virtue for you if you like ! . 
Of course the accent must be attended to . 
The capacious lung , the thundering or the tender vocal chords . 
Don't talk to me of your Archimedes' lever . 
He was an absent minded person with a mathematical imagination . 
Mathematics commands all my respect , but I have no use for engines . 
Give me the right word and the right accent and I will move the world . 
What a dream for a writer ! Because written words have their accent , too . 
It may be there , close by , disregarded , invisible , quite at hand . 
I believe there are men who can lay hold of a needle in a pottle of hay at the first try . 
For myself , I have never had such luck . 
And then there is that accent . 
He jotted down on ivory tablets thoughts , maxims , reflections which chance has preserved for the edification of posterity . 
Among other sayings I am quoting from memory I remember this solemn admonition Let all thy words have the accent of heroic truth . 
The accent of heroic truth ! This is very fine , but I am thinking that it is an easy matter for an austere emperor to jot down grandiose advice . 
Nobody will expect to find between the covers of this little book words of extraordinary potency or accents of irresistible heroism . 
However humiliating for my self esteem , I must confess that the counsels of Marcus Aurelius are not for me . 
They are more fit for a moralist than for an artist . 
Truth of a modest sort I can promise you , and also sincerity . 
That complete , praise worthy sincerity which , while it delivers one into the hands of one's enemies , is as likely as not to embroil one with one's friends . 
Embroil is perhaps too strong an expression . 
I can't imagine among either my enemies or my friends a being so hard up for something to do as to quarrel with me . 
To disappoint one's friends would be nearer the mark . 
Most , almost all , friend ships of the writing period of my life have come to me through my books and I know that a novelist lives in his work . 
He stands there , the only reality in an invented world , among imaginary things , happenings , and people . 
Writing about them , he is only writing about himself . 
But the disclosure is not complete . 
He remains , to a certain extent , a figure behind the veil a suspected rather than a seen presence a movement and a voice behind the draperies of fiction . 
In these personal notes there is no such veil . 
This is the danger incurred by an author of fiction who sets out to talk about himself without disguise . 
While these reminiscent pages were appearing serially I was remonstrated with for bad economy as if such writing were a form of self indulgence wasting the substance of future volumes . 
It seems that I am not sufficiently literary . 
Once before , some three years ago , when I published The Mirror of the Sea , a volume of impressions and memories , the same remarks were made to me . 
But , truth to say , I have never understood the kind of thrift they recommend . 
I wanted to pay my tribute to the sea , its ships and its men , to whom I remain indebted for so much which has gone to make me what I am . 
That seemed to me the only shape in which I could offer it to their shades . 
There could not be a question in my mind of anything else . 
It is quite possible that I am a bad economist but it is certain that I am incorrigible . 
There was nothing in them to perplex a young conscience . 
have their source in weaknesses which must be recognized with smiling com passion as the common inheritance of us all . 
Yes ! I , too , would like to hold the magic wand giving that command over laughter and tears which is declared to be the highest achievement of imaginative literature . 
Only , to be a great magician one must surrender oneself to occult and irresponsible powers , either outside or within one's breast . 
We have all heard of simple men selling their souls for love or power to some grotesque devil . 
The most ordinary intelligence can perceive without much reflection that anything of the sort is bound to be a fool's bargain . 
I don't lay claim to particular wisdom because of my dislike and distrust of such transactions . 
And I have carried my notion of good service from my earlier into my later existence . 
As in political so in literary action a man wins friends for himself mostly by the passion of his prejudices and by the consistent narrowness of his outlook . 
But I have never been able to love what was not lovable or hate what was not hateful out of deference for some general principle . 
Whether there be any courage in making this admission I know not . 
After the middle turn of life's way we consider dangers and joys with a tranquil mind . 
So I proceed in peace to declare that I have always suspected in the effort to bring into play the extremities of emotions the debasing touch of insincerity . 
And surely this is no great sin . 
From laughter and tears the descent is easy to snivelling and giggles . 
These may seem selfish considerations but you can't , in sound morals , condemn a man for taking care of his own integrity . 
It is his clear duty . 
And least of all can you condemn an artist pursuing , however humbly and imperfectly , a creative aim . 
All intellectual and artistic ambitions are permissible , up to and even beyond the limit of prudent sanity . 
They can hurt no one . 
If they are mad , then so much the worse for the artist . 
Indeed , as virtue is said to be , such ambitions are their own reward . 
The sight of human affairs deserves admiration and pity . 
They are worthy of respect , too . 
And he is not insensible who pays them the undemonstrative tribute of a sigh which is not a sob , and of a smile which is not a grin . 
Not that I think resignation the last word of wisdom . 
I am too much the creature of my time for that . 
And in this matter of life and art it is not the Why that matters so much to our happiness as the How . 
As the Frenchman said , Il y a toujours la maniere . 
The manner in laughter , in tears , in irony , in indignations and enthusiasms , in judgments and even in love . 
The manner in which , as in the features and character of a human face , the inner truth is foreshadowed for those who know how to look at their kind . 
Those who read me know my conviction that the world , the temporal world , rests on a few very simple ideas so simple that they must be as old as the hills . 
It rests notably , among others , on the idea of Fidelity . 
At a time when nothing which is not revolutionary in some way or other can expect to attract much attention I have not been revolutionary in my writings . 
The revolutionary spirit is mighty convenient in this , that it frees one from all scruples as regards ideas . 
Its hard , absolute optimism is repulsive to my mind by the menace of fanaticism and intolerance it contains . 
No doubt one should smile at these things but , imperfect Esthete , I am no better Philosopher . 
All claim to special righteousness awakens in me that scorn and danger from which a philosophical mind should be free . 
I fear that trying to be conversational I have only managed to be unduly discursive . 
I have never been very well acquainted with the art of conversation that art which , I understand , is supposed to be lost now . 
My young days , the days when one's habits and character are formed , have been rather familiar with long silences . 
Such voices as broke into them were anything but conversational . 
No. I haven't got the habit . 
Yet this discursiveness is not so irrelevant to the handful of pages which follow . 
, with unconventionality of form . 
I was told severely that the public would view with displeasure the informal character of my recollections . 
Alas ! I protested , mildly . 
Could I begin with the sacramental words , 'I was born on such a date in such a place' ? The remoteness of the locality would have robbed the statement of all interest . 
I haven't lived through wonderful adventures to be related seriatim . 
I haven't known distinguished men on whom I could pass fatuous remarks . 
I haven't been mixed up with great or scandalous affairs . 
This is but a bit of psychological document , and even so , I haven't written it with a view to put forward any conclusion of my own . 
But my objector was not placated . 
These were good reasons for not writing at all not a defense of what stood written already , he said . 
I admit that almost anything , anything in the world , would serve as a good reason for not writing at all . 
They have their hope and their aim . 
In the purposely mingled resonance of this double strain a friend here and there will perhaps detect a subtle accord . 
J. C. K. A PERSONAL RECORD I Books may be written in all sorts of places . 
These words of Almayer's romantic daughter I remember tracing on the gray paper of a pad which rested on the blanket of my bed place . 
I had turned on the steam heater after placing a tin under the leaky water cock for perhaps you do not know that water will leak where steam will not . 
When he did not play the banjo he loved to sit and look at it . 
I could not have told him that Nina had said , It has set at last . 
He would have been extremely surprised and perhaps have dropped his precious banjo . 
He lowered a tender gaze on his banjo , and I went on looking through the port hole . 
The round opening framed in its brass rim a fragment of the quays , with a row of casks ranged on the frozen ground and the tail end of a great cart . 
A red nosed carter in a blouse and a woollen night cap leaned against the wheel . 
An idle , strolling custom house guard , belted over his blue capote , had the air of being depressed by exposure to the weather and the monotony of official existence . 
The background of grimy houses found a place in the picture framed by my port hole , across a wide stretch of paved quay brown with frozen mud . 
I could recall no more the hallucination of the Eastern Archipelago which I certainly hoped to see again . 
The story of Almayer's Folly got put away under the pillow for that day . 
I will not say anything of my privileged position . 
I was there just to oblige , as an actor of standing may take a small part in the benefit performance of a friend . 
As far as my feelings were concerned I did not wish to be in that steamer at that time and in those circumstances . 
And perhaps I was not even wanted there in the usual sense in which a ship wants an officer . 
It was the first and last instance in my sea life when I served ship owners who have remained completely shadowy to my apprehension . 
But indubitably it was a company , it had even a house flag , all white with the letters F. C. T. C. artfully tangled up in a complicated monogram . 
We flew it at our mainmast head , and now I have come to the conclusion that it was the only flag of its kind in existence . 
The then secretary of the London Shipmasters' Society , with its modest rooms in Fenchurch Street , was a man of indefatigable activity and the greatest devotion to his task . 
He is responsible for what was my last association with a ship . 
I call it that be cause it can hardly be called a sea going experience . 
He organized for us courses of professional lectures , St . 
I am trying to persuade all our great ship owning firms to come to us for their men . 
There is nothing of a trade union spirit about our society , and I really don't see why they should not , he said once to me . 
I am always telling the captains , too , that , all things being equal , they ought to give preference to the members of the society . 
In my position I can generally find for them what they want among our members or our associate members . 
Thus , one murky November afternoon he beckoned me in with a crooked finger and that peculiar glance above his spectacles which is perhaps my strongest physical recollection of the man . 
I have had in here a shipmaster , this morning , he said , getting back to his desk and motioning me to a chair , who is in want of an officer . 
You know , nothing pleases me more than to be asked , but , unfortunately , I do not quite see my way . 
As the outer room was full of men I cast a wondering glance at the closed door but he shook his head . 
Oh , yes , I should be only too glad to get that berth for one of them . 
But the fact of the matter is , the captain of that ship wants an officer who can speak French fluently , and that's not so easy to find . 
I do not know anybody myself but you . 
It's a second officer's berth and , of course , you would not care . 
would you now ? I know that it isn't what you are looking for . 
I had given myself up to the idleness of a haunted man who looks for nothing but words wherein to capture his visions . 
But I admit that outwardly I resembled sufficiently a man who could make a second officer for a steamer chartered by a French company . 
had not put a visible mark upon my features . 
For many years he and the world of his story had been the companions of my imagination without , I hope , impairing my ability to deal with the realities of sea life . 
I had had the man and his surroundings with me ever since my return from the eastern waters some four years before the day of which I speak . 
It was in the front sitting room of furnished apartments in a Pimlico square that they first began to live again with a vividness and poignancy quite foreign to our former real intercourse . 
came nobly to the rescue . 
Before long , as was only proper , his wife and daughter joined him round my table , and then the rest of that Pantai band came full of words and gestures . 
Unknown to my respectable landlady , it was my practice directly after my breakfast to hold animated receptions of Malays , Arabs , and half castes . 
They did not clamour aloud for my attention . 
They came with a silent and irresistible appeal and the appeal , I affirm here , was not to my self love or my vanity . 
There was no vision of a printed book before me as I sat writing at that table , situated in a decayed part of Belgravia . 
He explained to me that the ship was chartered by a French company intending to establish a regular monthly line of sailings from Rouen , for the transport of French emigrants to Canada . 
But , frankly , this sort of thing did not interest me very much . 
I said gravely that if it were really a matter of keeping up the reputation of the Shipmasters' Society I would consider it . 
But the consideration was just for form's sake . 
The next day I interviewed the captain , and I believe we were impressed favourably with each other . 
I told him that if I came at all the rank really did not matter . 
I am sure , he insisted , you will get on first rate with Mr. Paramor . 
I promised faithfully to stay for two trips at least , and it was in those circumstances that what was to be my last connection with a ship began . 
And after all there was not even one single trip . 
The new life attended closely upon the old , and the nine chapters of Almayer's Folly went with me to the Victoria Dock , whence in a few days we started for Rouen . 
It might have been that of course but the obvious , gross obstacle was clearly the want of money . 
Their faces as they went ashore wore a cheerfully inconclusive expression . 
It must be said that in less than three weeks a move took place . 
For a moment Mr. Paramor was radiant . 
Excellent idea ! but directly his face fell . 
Yes ! But we can't make that job last more than three days , he muttered , discontentedly . 
You may think that this state of forced idleness favoured some advance in the fortunes of Almayer and his daughter . 
Yet it was not so . 
It was always thus with this book , begun in and finished in with that shortest of all the novels which it was to be my lot to write . 
of my childhood and the realization of childhood's vain words , expressing a light hearted and romantic whim . 
I did go there THERE being the region of Stanley Falls , which in was the blankest of blank spaces on the earth's figured surface . 
of Almayer's Folly , carried about me as if it were a talisman or a treasure , went THERE , too . 
I failed in being the second white man on record drowned at that interesting spot through the upsetting of a canoe . 
Geneva , or more precisely the hydropathic establishment of Champel , is rendered forever famous by the termination of the eighth chapter in the history of Almayer's decline and fall . 
The events of the ninth are inextricably mixed up with the details of the proper management of a waterside warehouse owned by a certain city firm whose name does not matter . 
But that work , undertaken to accustom myself again to the activities of a healthy existence , soon came to an end . 
The earth had nothing to hold me with for very long . 
And then that memorable story , like a cask of choice Madeira , got carried for three years to and fro upon the sea . 
Whether this treatment improved its flavour or not , of course I would not like to say . 
As far as appearance is concerned it certainly did nothing of the kind . 
acquired a faded look and an ancient , yellowish complexion . 
It became at last unreasonable to suppose that anything in the world would ever happen to Almayer and Nina . 
And yet something most unlikely to happen on the high seas was to wake them up from their state of suspended animation . 
What is it that Novalis says It is certain my conviction gains infinitely the moment an other soul will believe in it . 
Providence which saved my MS . 
from the Congo rapids brought it to the knowledge of a helpful soul far out on the open sea . 
who was the first reader of Almayer's Folly the very first reader I ever had . 
Would it bore you very much in reading a MS . 
in a handwriting like mine ? I asked him one evening , on a sudden impulse at the end of a longish conversation whose subject was Gibbon's History . 
was sitting in my cabin one stormy dog watch below , after bring me a book to read from his own travelling store . 
Not at all , he answered , with his courteous intonation and a faint smile . 
As I pulled a drawer open his suddenly aroused curiosity gave him a watchful expression . 
I wonder what he expected to see . 
All that's beyond guessing now . 
His eyes had a thoughtful , introspective look . 
In his attractive reserved manner and in a veiled sympathetic voice he asked What is this ? It is a sort of tale , I answered , with an effort . 
It is not even finished yet . 
Nevertheless , I would like to know what you think of it . 
in the breast pocket of his jacket I remember perfectly his thin , brown fingers folding it lengthwise . 
Next day , but this time in the first dog watch , Jacques entered my cabin . 
He had a thick woollen muffler round his throat , and the MS . 
He tendered it to me with a steady look , but without a word . 
I took it in silence . 
He sat down on the couch and still said nothing . 
I turned my back squarely on the desk . 
And even then Jacques never offered a word . 
Well , what do you say ? I asked at last . 
Is it worth finishing ? This question expressed exactly the whole of my thoughts . 
Distinctly , he answered , in his sedate , veiled voice , and then coughed a little . 
Were you interested ? I inquired further , almost in a whisper . 
Very much ! In a pause I went on meeting instinctively the heavy rolling of the ship , and Jacques put his feet upon the couch . 
It was in latitude south , and nearly in the longitude of Greenwich , as far as I can remember , that these quiet rites of Almayer's and Nina's resurrection were taking place . 
In the prolonged silence it occurred to me that there was a good deal of retrospective writing in the story as far as it went . 
Was it intelligible in its action , I asked myself , as if already the story teller were being born into the body of a seaman . 
But I heard on deck the whistle of the officer of the watch and remained on the alert to catch the order that was to follow this call to attention . 
It reached me as a faint , fierce shout to Square the yards . 
Aha ! I thought to myself , a westerly blow coming on . 
Then I turned to my very first reader , who , alas ! was not to live long enough to know the end of the tale . 
Now let me ask you one more thing is the story quite clear to you as it stands ? He raised his dark , gentle eyes to my face and seemed surprised . 
This was all I was to hear from his lips concerning the merits of Almayer's Folly . 
We never spoke together of the book again . 
The purpose instilled into me by his simple and final Distinctly remained dormant , yet alive to await its opportunity . 
I dare say I am compelled unconsciously compelled now to write volume after volume , as in past years I was compelled to go to sea voyage after voyage . 
I do not know which of the two impulses has appeared more mysterious and more wonderful to me . 
Still , in writing , as in going to sea , I had to wait my opportunity . 
Line by line , rather than page by page , was the growth of Almayer's Folly . 
And so it happened that I very nearly lost the MS . 
, advanced now to the first words of the ninth chapter , in the Friedrichstrasse Poland , or more precisely to Ukraine . 
On an early , sleepy morning changing trains in a hurry I left my Gladstone bag in a refreshment room . 
A worthy and intelligent Koffertrager rescued it . 
Yet in my anxiety I was not thinking of the MS . 
, but of all the other things that were packed in the bag . 
In Warsaw , where I spent two days , those wandering pages were never exposed to the light , except once to candle light , while the bag lay open on the chair . 
I was dressing hurriedly to dine at a sporting club . 
was sitting on the hotel sofa waiting to carry me off there . 
You might tell me something of your life while you are dressing , he suggested , kindly . 
I do not think I told him much of my life story either then or later . 
But it never touched upon Almayer's Folly , and next morning , in uninterrupted obscurity , this inseparable companion went on rolling with me in the southeast direction toward the government of Kiev . 
At that time there was an eight hours' drive , if not more , from the railway station to the country house which was my destination . 
, will present himself before you , reporting the arrival of the small sledge which will take you here on the next day . 
I send with him my heaviest fur , which I suppose with such overcoats as you may have with you will keep you from freezing on the road . 
, a man of about thirty five , appeared with an air of perplexity on his open and mustached countenance . 
I got up from the table and greeted him in Polish , with , I hope , the right shade of consideration demanded by his noble blood and his confidential position . 
His face cleared up in a wonderful way . 
It appeared that , notwithstanding my uncle's earnest assurances , the good fellow had remained in doubt of our understanding each other . 
He imagined I would talk to him in some foreign language . 
We understood each other very well from the first . 
He took charge of me as if I were not quite of age . 
I had a delightful boyish feeling of coming home from school when he muffled me up next morning in an enormous bearskin travelling coat and took his seat protectively by my side . 
The sledge was a very small one , and it looked utterly insignificant , almost like a toy behind the four big bays harnessed two and two . 
We three , counting the coachman , filled it completely . 
He was a young fellow with clear blue eyes the high collar of his livery fur coat framed his cheery countenance and stood all round level with the top of his head . 
He turned out an excellent coachman , with an instinct for keeping the road among the snow covered fields and a natural gift of getting the best out of his horses . 
He is the son of that Joseph that I suppose the Captain remembers . 
He who used to drive the Captain's late grandmother of holy memory , remarked V. S. , busy tucking fur rugs about my feet . 
I remembered perfectly the trusty Joseph who used to drive my grandmother . 
What became of him ? I asked . 
He is no longer serving , I suppose . 
He served our master , was the reply . 
But he died of cholera ten years ago now that great epidemic that we had . 
And his wife died at the same time the whole houseful of them , and this is the only boy that was left . 
of Almayer's Folly was reposing in the bag under our feet . 
I saw again the sun setting on the plains as I saw it in the travels of my childhood . 
It set , clear and red , dipping into the snow in full view as if it were setting on the sea . 
A cottage or two glided by , a low interminable wall , and then , glimmering and winking through a screen of fir trees , the lights of the master's house . 
That very evening the wandering MS . 
It attracted no attention from the affectionate presence hovering round the son of the favourite sister . 
I shall be always coming in for a chat . 
As a matter of fact , we had the whole house to chat in , and were everlastingly intruding upon each other . 
I invaded the retirement of his study where the principal feature was a colossal silver inkstand presented to him on his fiftieth year by a subscription of all his wards then living . 
He had been guardian of many orphans of land owning families from the three southern provinces ever since the year . 
Some of them had been my school fellows and playmates , but not one of them , girls or boys , that I know of has ever written a novel . 
One or two were older than myself considerably older , too . 
It was certainly a young man in a dark blue , tailless coat and huge Cossack trousers , that being the livery of the men about the stables . 
Petersburg , some influential personages procured for her this permission it was officially called the Highest Grace of a four months' leave from exile . 
I did not understand the tragic significance of it all at the time , though , indeed , I remember that doctors also came . 
There were no signs of invalidism about her but I think that already they had pronounced her doom unless perhaps the change to a southern climate could re establish her declining strength . 
For me it seems the very happiest period of my existence . 
There were other children , too , many of whom are dead now , and not a few whose very names I have forgotten . 
This is a far cry back from the MS . 
of Almayer's Folly , but the public record of these formative impressions is not the whim of an uneasy egotism . 
These , too , are things human , already distant in their appeal . 
It is meet that something more should be left for the novelist's children than the colours and figures of his own hard won creation . 
Only in men's imagination does every truth find an effective and undeniable existence . 
Imagination , not invention , is the supreme master of art as of life . 
II As I have said , I was unpacking my luggage after a journey from London into Ukraine . 
of Almayer's Folly my companion already for some three years or more , and then in the ninth chapter of its age was deposited unostentatiously on the writing table placed between two windows . 
It didn't occur to me to put it away in the drawer the table was fitted with , but my eye was attracted by the good form of the same drawer's brass handles . 
Two candelabra , with four candles each , lighted up festally the room which had waited so many years for the wandering nephew . 
The road by which I had come ran through the village with a turn just outside the gates closing the short drive . 
Somebody was abroad on the deep snow track a quick tinkle of bells stole gradually into the stillness of the room like a tuneful whisper . 
I did not want him in the least , but I did not like to tell him to go away . 
As a matter of fact he had no such claim on my consideration . 
He was the product of some village near by and was there on his promotion , having learned the service in one or two houses as pantry boy . 
I know this because I asked the worthy V next day . 
I might well have spared the question . 
The tinkle of the traveller's bells , after growing louder , had faded away quickly , and the tumult of barking dogs in the village had calmed down at last . 
My uncle , lounging in the corner of a small couch , smoked his long Turkish chibouk in silence . 
This is an extremely nice writing table you have got for my room , I remarked . 
It is really your property , he said , keeping his eyes on me , with an interested and wistful expression , as he had done ever since I had entered the house . 
Forty years ago your mother used to write at this very table . 
It was a present to them jointly from your uncle Nicholas B. when your mother was seventeen and your aunt two years younger . 
She was a very dear , delightful girl , that aunt of yours , of whom I suppose you know nothing more than the name . 
She did not shine so much by personal beauty and a cultivated mind in which your mother was far superior . 
It was her good sense , the admirable sweetness of her nature , her exceptional facility and ease in daily relations , that endeared her to every body . 
Her death was a terrible grief and a serious moral loss for us all . 
Had she lived she would have brought the greatest blessings to the house it would have been her lot to enter , as wife , mother , and mistress of a household . 
She would have created round herself an atmosphere of peace and content which only those who can love unselfishly are able to evoke . 
Your mother of far greater beauty , exceptionally distinguished in person , manner , and intellect had a less easy disposition . 
Being more brilliantly gifted , she also expected more from life . 
At that trying time especially , we were greatly concerned about her state . 
At war with herself , she could not give to others that feeling of peace which was not her own . 
Our uncle Nicholas was not a man very accessible to feelings of affection . 
The modest , lovable qualities of the youngest sister he did not seem able to see . 
It was I who felt most profoundly this unexpected stroke of death falling upon the family less than a year after I had become its head . 
She was alone with the coachman and old Valery , the personal servant of our late father . 
Impatient of delay while they were trying to dig themselves out , she jumped out of the sledge and went to look for the road herself . 
All this happened in , not ten miles from the house in which we are sitting now . 
The road was soon found , but snow had begun to fall thickly again , and they were four more hours getting home . 
To my reproaches for venturing out at all in such weather , she answered , characteristically , that she could not bear the thought of abandoning me to my cheerless solitude . 
It is incomprehensible how it was that she was allowed to start . 
Behold the vanity of all hopes and fears ! I was the most frail at birth of all the children . 
It has been my lot to lay in an early grave many honest hearts , many brilliant promises , many hopes full of life . 
He got up briskly , sighed , and left me saying , We will dine in half an hour . 
, where he became inaudible on the thick carpet . 
But I heard the door of his study bedroom close . 
and a thin , curved , dignified nose , a feature in strict accordance with the physical tradition of the B. family . 
But it is not by these fragmentary remains of perishable mortality that he lives in my memory . 
It is over borne by another and complex impression of awe , compassion , and horror . 
being who once upon a time had eaten a dog . 
It is a good forty years since I heard the tale , and the effect has not worn off yet . 
I believe this is the very first , say , realistic , story I heard in my life but all the same I don't know why I should have been so frightfully impressed . 
Of course I know what our village dogs look like but still . 
Let the truth stand here . 
The responsibility rests with the Man of St . 
Helena in view of his deplorable levity in the conduct of the Russian campaign . 
A picket of Cossacks was sleeping in that village lost in the depths of the great Lithuanian forest . 
The three sportsmen had observed them from a hiding place making themselves very much at home among the huts just before the early winter darkness set in at four o'clock . 
They had observed them with disgust and , perhaps , with despair . 
Late in the night the rash counsels of hunger overcame the dictates of prudence . 
Crawling through the snow they crept up to the fence of dry branches which generally encloses a village in that part of Lithuania . 
What they expected to get and in what manner , and whether this expectation was worth the risk , goodness only knows . 
However , these Cossack parties , in most cases wandering without an officer , were known to guard themselves badly and often not at all . 
In addition , the village lying at a great distance from the line of French retreat , they could not suspect the presence of stragglers from the Grand Army . 
, a creature quite as formidable under the circumstances as a lion , began to bark on the other side of the fence . 
from the lips of Captain Nicholas B. 's sister in law , my grandmother , I used to tremble with excitement . 
He dashed out and died . 
His head , I understand , was severed at one blow from his body . 
It was not thin on the contrary , it seemed unhealthily obese its skin showed bare patches of an unpleasant character . 
However , they had not killed that dog for the sake of the pelt . 
A silence in which a small boy shudders and says firmly I could not have eaten that dog . 
And his grandmother remarks with a smile Perhaps you don't know what it is to be hungry . 
I have learned something of it since . 
Not that I have been reduced to eat dog . 
, who in his young days , had eaten the Lithuanian dog . 
I wish he had not . 
The childish horror of the deed clings absurdly to the grizzled man . 
I am perfectly helpless against it . 
Pro patria ! Looked at in that light , it appears a sweet and decorous meal . 
Alas ! I have the conviction that there are men of unstained rectitude who are ready to murmur scornfully the word desertion . 
Thus the taste of innocent adventure may be made bitter to the palate . 
The part of the inexplicable should be al lowed for in appraising the conduct of men in a world where no explanation is final . 
No charge of faithlessness ought to be lightly uttered . 
The appearances of this perishable life are deceptive , like everything that falls under the judgment of our imperfect senses . 
The inner voice may remain true enough in its secret counsel . 
The fidelity to a special tradition may last through the events of an unrelated existence , following faithfully , too , the traced way of an inexplicable impulse . 
It would take too long to explain the intimate alliance of contradictions in human nature which makes love itself wear at times the desperate shape of betrayal . 
And perhaps there is no possible explanation . 
Indulgence as somebody said is the most intelligent of all the virtues . 
I venture to think that it is one of the least common , if not the most uncommon of all . 
I would not imply by this that men are foolish or even most men . 
God forbid that an unworthy churl should escape merited censure by hanging on to the stirrup leather of the sublime caballero . 
His was a very noble , a very unselfish fantasy , fit for nothing except to raise the envy of baser mortals . 
But there is more than one aspect to the charm of that exalted and dangerous figure . 
He , too , had his frailties . 
After reading so many romances he desired naively to escape with his very body from the intolerable reality of things . 
The priest and the barber were not unreasonable in their strictures . 
He rides forth , his head encircled by a halo the patron saint of all lives spoiled or saved by the irresistible grace of imagination . 
But he was not a good citizen . 
Perhaps that and nothing else was meant by the well remembered exclamation of my tutor . 
It was in the jolly year , the very last year in which I have had a jolly holiday . 
There are other reasons why I should remember that year , but they are too long to state formally in this place . 
Moreover , they have nothing to do with that holiday . 
Of late we had been tramping slowly up the Valley of the Reuss . 
It was a delightful time . 
It was much more like a stroll than a tramp . 
At that time the work on the St . 
Gothard Tunnel was going on , and that magnificent enterprise of burrowing was directly responsible for the unexpected building , standing all alone upon the very roots of the mountains . 
And yet it was a hotel it had even a name , which I have forgotten . 
But there was no gold laced doorkeeper at its humble door . 
A plain but vigorous servant girl answered our inquiries , then a man and woman who owned the place appeared . 
However , its roof was not hinged and it was not full to the brim of slab sided and painted animals of wood . 
Even the live tourist animal was nowhere in evidence . 
Then we hastened up stairs to bed in a room smelling of pine planks , and I was fast asleep before my head touched the pillow . 
woke me up early , and as we were dressing remarked There seems to be a lot of people staying in this hotel . 
I have heard a noise of talking up till eleven o'clock . 
This statement surprised me I had heard no noise whatever , having slept like a top . 
We went down stairs into the long and narrow dining room with its long and narrow table . 
There were two rows of plates on it . 
He glanced up from the paper he was reading and seemed genuinely astonished at our intrusion . 
By and by more men came in . 
Not one of them looked like a tourist . 
Not a single woman appeared . 
These men seemed to know each other with some intimacy , but I cannot say they were a very talkative lot . 
The bald headed man sat down gravely at the head of the table . 
It all had the air of a family party . 
This was my first contact with British mankind apart from the tourist kind seen in the hotels of Zurich and Lucerne the kind which has no real existence in a workaday world . 
I know now that the bald headed man spoke with a strong Scotch accent . 
I have met many of his kind ashore and afloat . 
The second engineer of the steamer Mavis , for instance , ought to have been his twin brother . 
I cannot help thinking that he really was , though for some reason of his own he assured me that he never had a twin brother . 
Anyway , the deliberate , bald headed Scot with the coal black beard appeared to my boyish eyes a very romantic and mysterious person . 
Our mapped out route led over the Furca Pass toward the Rhone Glacier , with the further intention of following down the trend of the Hasli Valley . 
The sun was already declining when we found ourselves on the top of the pass , and the remark alluded to was presently uttered . 
We sat down by the side of the road to continue the argument begun half a mile or so before . 
A stir on the road made me look up and then I saw my unforgettable Englishman . 
There are acquaintances of later years , familiars , shipmates , whom I remember less clearly . 
, with the mien of an ardent and fearless traveller . 
He was the leader of a small caravan . 
His two daughters , surely . 
An industrious luggage mule , with unstarched ears and guarded by a slouching , sallow driver , brought up the rear . 
My tutor , after pausing for a look and a faint smile , resumed his earnest argument . 
I tell you it was a memorable year ! One does not meet such an Englishman twice in a lifetime . 
It must be stated that on that day and in the exhilarating atmosphere of that elevated spot I had been feeling utterly crushed . 
It was the year in which I had first spoken aloud of my desire to go to sea . 
At first like those sounds that , ranging outside the scale to which men's ears are attuned , remain inaudible to our sense of hearing , this declaration passed unperceived . 
It was as if it had not been . 
Later on , by trying various tones , I managed to arouse here and there a surprised momentary attention the What was that funny noise ? sort of inquiry . 
ebbing out of the educational and academical town of Cracow spread itself over several provinces . 
It spread itself shallow but far reaching . 
It stirred up a mass of remonstrance , indignation , pitying wonder , bitter irony , and downright chaff . 
I could hardly breathe under its weight , and certainly had no words for an answer . 
People wondered what Mr. T. B. would do now with his worrying nephew and , I dare say , hoped kindly that he would make short work of my nonsense . 
Practically , after several exhaustive conversations , he concluded that he would not have me later on reproach him for having spoiled my life by an unconditional opposition . 
But I must take time for serious reflection . 
And I must think not only of myself but of others weigh the claims of affection and conscience against my own sincerity of purpose . 
Think well what it all means in the larger issues my boy , he exhorted me , finally , with special friendliness . 
And meantime try to get the best place you can at the yearly examinations . 
The scholastic year came to an end . 
happened to be a more difficult task than for other boys . 
Such , however , was not the avowed purpose of that tour . 
It was rather , I suspect , planned in order to distract and occupy my thoughts in other directions . 
Nothing had been said for months of my going to sea . 
But my attachment to my young tutor and his influence over me were so well known that he must have received a confidential mission to talk me out of my romantic folly . 
It was an excellently appropriate arrangement , as neither he nor I had ever had a single glimpse of the sea in our lives . 
That was to come by and by for both of us in Venice , from the outer shore of Lido . 
Meantime he had taken his mission to heart so well that I began to feel crushed before we reached Zurich . 
He had proved it already by two years of unremitting and arduous care . 
I could not hate him . 
But he had been crushing me slowly , and when he started to argue on the top of the Furca Pass he was perhaps nearer a success than either he or I imagined . 
I listened to him in despairing silence , feeling that ghostly , unrealized , and desired sea of my dreams escape from the unnerved grip of my will . 
The enthusiastic old Englishman had passed and the argument went on . 
What reward could I expect from such a life at the end of my years , either in ambition , honour , or conscience ? An unanswerable question . 
But I felt no longer crushed . 
Then our eyes met and a genuine emotion was visible in his as well as in mine . 
The end came all at once . 
He picked up the knapsack suddenly and got onto his feet . 
You are an incorrigible , hopeless Don Quixote . 
I was only fifteen and did not know what he meant exactly . 
But I felt vaguely flattered at the name of the immortal knight turning up in connection with my own folly , as some people would call it to my face . 
Alas ! I don't think there was anything to be proud of . 
Mine was not the stuff of protectors of forlorn damsels , the redressers of this world's wrong are made of and my tutor was the man to know that best . 
Therein , in his indignation , he was superior to the barber and the priest when he flung at me an honoured name like a reproach . 
I walked behind him for full five minutes then without looking back he stopped . 
The shadows of distant peaks were lengthening over the Furca Pass . 
We will have no more of it . 
And indeed there was no more question of my mysterious vocation between us . 
There was to be no more question of it at all , no where or with any one . 
We began the descent of the Furca Pass conversing merrily . 
Eleven years later , month for month , I stood on Tower Hill on the steps of the St . 
Katherine's Dockhouse , a master in the British Merchant Service . 
But the man who put his hand on my shoulder at the top of the Furca Pass was no longer living . 
That very year of our travels he took his degree of the Philosophical Faculty and only then his true vocation declared itself . 
Obedient to the call , he entered at once upon the four year course of the Medical Schools . 
A day came when , on the deck of a ship moored in Calcutta , I opened a letter telling me of the end of an enviable existence . 
He had made for himself a practice in some obscure little town of Austrian Galicia . 
An extreme distaste for that objectionable episode has tinged the views I hold as to the character and achievements of Napoleon the Great . 
I need not say that these are unfavourable . 
It was morally reprehensible for that great captain to induce a simple minded Polish gentleman to eat dog by raising in his breast a false hope of national independence . 
It has been the fate of that credulous nation to starve for upward of a hundred years on a diet of false hopes and well dog . 
It is , when one thinks of it , a singularly poisonous regimen . 
Some pride in the national constitution which has survived a long course of such dishes is really excusable . 
in his misanthropically laconic manner that this supper in the woods had been nearly the death of him . 
that he did not like to talk of his campaigns , which began at Friedland and ended some where in the neighbourhood of Bar le Duc . 
His admiration of the great Emperor was unreserved in everything but expression . 
Like the religion of earnest men , it was too profound a sentiment to be displayed before a world of little faith . 
Apart from that he seemed as completely devoid of military anecdotes as though he had hardly ever seen a soldier in his life . 
It is enough that I have them , he used to mutter . 
In the course of thirty years they were seen on his breast only twice at an auspicious marriage in the family and at the funeral of an old friend . 
Even in his embittered heart there lived a hope . 
But he was not a true prophet . 
He was a man of strange contradictions . 
Considered as obstinately secretive in all his purposes , he was in reality the victim of a most painful irresolution in all matters of civil life . 
Under his taciturn , phlegmatic behaviour was hidden a faculty of short lived passionate anger . 
Lest some construction favourable to his valour should be put on the fact he condescended to explain how it came to pass . 
, jammed hopelessly in the streets , were being simply exterminated by the troops of the Allied Powers . 
When asked what it was like in there , Mr. Nicholas B. muttered only the word Shambles . 
Having delivered his message to the Prince he hastened away at once to render an account of his mission to the superior who had sent him . 
He had not gone more than two hundred yards on the other side when he heard the sound of the fatal explosions . 
Mr. Nicholas B. concluded his bald narrative with the word Imbecile , uttered with the utmost deliberation . 
It testified to his indignation at the loss of so many thousands of lives . 
But his phlegmatic physiognomy lighted up when he spoke of his only wound , with something resembling satisfaction . 
You will see that there was some reason for it when you learn that he was wounded in the heel . 
Like his Majesty the Emperor Napoleon himself , he reminded his hearers , with assumed indifference . 
There can be no doubt that the indifference was assumed , if one thinks what a very distinguished sort of wound it was . 
How he got there across the breadth of an armed Europe , and after what adventures , I am afraid will never be known now . 
This relative of ours happened to be an Austrian officer who had left the service after the battle of Austerlitz . 
Unlike Mr. Nicholas B. , who concealed his decorations , he liked to display his honourable discharge in which he was mentioned as un schreckbar before the enemy . 
No conjunction could seem more unpromising , yet it stands in the family tradition that these two got on very well together in their rural solitude . 
The fall of Napoleon and the ruin of national hopes affected adversely the character of Mr. Nicholas B. He shrank from returning to his province . 
But for that there was also another reason . 
Mr. Nicholas B. and his brother my maternal grand father had lost their father early , while they were quite children . 
Their mother , young still and left very well off , married again a man of great charm and of an amiable disposition , but without a penny . 
It seems that such practices can be successful if one is charming enough to dazzle one's own wife permanently , and brave enough to defy the vain terrors of public opinion . 
It was then that the stepfather declared with calm finality that there were no accounts to render and no property to inherit . 
The whole fortune was his very own . 
He was very good natured about the young man's misapprehension of the true state of affairs , but , of course , felt obliged to maintain his position firmly . 
called a meeting of landowners to ascertain in a friendly way how the misunderstanding between X and his stepsons had arisen and devise proper measures to remove the same . 
A deputation to that effect visited X , who treated them to excellent wines , but absolutely refused his ear to their remonstrances . 
But by the magic power of stubborn and constant assertion , there were found presently , here and there , people who mumbled that surely there must be some thing in it . 
X met this manifestation of public opinion with the serenity of an unstained conscience . 
He refused to be crushed . 
This was the beginning of a lawsuit , an abominable marvel of chicane , which by the use of every legal subterfuge was made to last for many years . 
It was also the occasion for a display of much kindness and sympathy . 
All the neighbouring houses flew open for the reception of the homeless . 
Neither legal aid nor material assistance in the prosecution of the suit was ever wanting . 
this scandalous litigation had to be ended by a compromise lest worse should befall . 
His big shoots were fairly well attended again . 
He was never tired of assuring people that he bore no grudge for what was past he protested loudly of his constant affection for his wife and stepchildren . 
Nevertheless , his love for them survived these cruel blows . 
And there might have been some truth in his protestations . 
, or even of putting in an appearance for the great shoot on the name day . 
My grandfather was an ardent lover of every sport . 
His temperament was as free from hardness and animosity as can be imagined . 
Pupil of the liberal minded Benedictines who directed the only public school of some standing then in the south , he had also read deeply the authors of the eighteenth century . 
In him Christian charity was joined to a philosophical indulgence for the failings of human nature . 
But the memory of those miserably anxious early years , his young man's years robbed of all generous illusions by the cynicism of the sordid lawsuit , stood in the way of forgiveness . 
The fortune thus acquired and augmented by a wise and careful management passed to some distant relatives whom he had never seen and who even did not bear his name . 
Meantime the blessing of general peace descended upon Europe . 
This kingdom , created by the Vienna Congress as an acknowledgment to a nation of its former independent existence , included only the central provinces of the old Polish patrimony . 
His intelligence was limited , and his sanity itself was doubtful . 
, but by the fury of an uncontrollable temper which generally broke out in disgusting abuse on the parade ground . 
He was a passionate militarist and an amazing drill master . 
He treated his Polish army as a spoiled child treats a favourite toy , except that he did not take it to bed with him at night . 
It was not small enough for that . 
But he played with it all day and every day , delighting in the variety of pretty uniforms and in the fun of incessant drilling . 
This childish passion , not for war , but for mere militarism , achieved a desirable result . 
served in the ranks by enlistment , and the officers belonged mainly to the smaller nobility . 
Its first campaign , against Russia itself , was to be its last . 
In , on the outbreak of the Revolution , Mr. Nicholas B. was the senior captain of his regiment . 
Some time before he had been made head of the remount establishment quartered outside the kingdom in our southern provinces , whence almost all the horses for the Polish cavalry were drawn . 
Unkind fate was lying in wait for him among the scenes of his youth . 
At the first news of the rising in Warsaw all the remount establishment , officers , vets . 
, and the very troopers , were put promptly under arrest and hurried off in a body beyond the Dnieper to the nearest town in Russia proper . 
From there they were dispersed to the distant parts of the empire . 
On this occasion poor Mr. Nicholas B. penetrated into Russia much farther than he ever did in the times of Napoleonic invasion , if much less willingly . 
It is difficult to form a just idea of what a chat with Mr. Nicholas B. could have been like . 
Mr. Nicholas B. received these communications with outward phlegm , but the Russian showed a warm sympathy for his prisoner . 
As a soldier myself I understand your feelings . 
You , of course , would like to be in the thick of it . 
By heavens ! I am fond of you . 
If it were not for the terms of the military oath I would let you go on my own responsibility . 
What difference could it make to us , one more or less of you ? At other times he wondered with simplicity . 
Look at your Napoleon now . 
There is no denying it that he was a great man as long as he was content to thrash those Germans and Austrians and all those nations . 
After his return to Poland Mr. Nicholas B. described him as a worthy man but stupid , whenever he could be induced to speak of the conditions of his exile . 
Declining the option offered him to enter the Russian army , he was retired with only half the pension of his rank . 
Every generation has its memories . 
After a long and agonizing hesitation he was persuaded at last to become the tenant of some fifteen hundred acres out of the estate of a friend in the neighbourhood . 
The terms of the lease were very advantageous , but the retired situation of the village and a plain , comfortable house in good repair were , I fancy , the greatest inducements . 
His character and his patriotism were above suspicion but the organizers of the rising in their frequent journeys up and down the province scrupulously avoided coming near his house . 
It was generally felt that the repose of the old man's last years ought not to be disturbed . 
But even he agreed that dear Nicholas must not be worried . 
All this considerate caution on the part of friends , both conspirators and others , did not prevent Mr. Nicholas B. being made to feel the misfortunes of that ill omened year . 
Less than forty eight hours after the beginning of the rebellion in that part of the country , a squadron of scouting Cossacks passed through the village and invaded the homestead . 
Most of them remained , formed between the house and the stables , while several , dismounting , ransacked the various outbuildings . 
The officer in command , accompanied by two men , walked up to the front door . 
All the blinds on that side were down . 
The officer told the servant who received him that he wanted to see his master . 
He was answered that the master was away from home , which was perfectly true . 
I follow here the tale as told afterward by the servant to my granduncle's friends and relatives , and as I have heard it repeated . 
On receiving this answer the Cossack officer , who had been standing in the porch , stepped into the house . 
There are only two horses in the stables . 
He will be away a week or more . 
He was pleased to mention to me that he had to attend to some business in the Civil Court . 
While the servant was speaking the officer looked about the hall . 
There was a door facing him , a door to the right , and a door to the left . 
The officer chose to enter the room on the left , and ordered the blinds to be pulled up . 
It was Mr. Nicholas B. 's study , with a couple of tall bookcases , some pictures on the walls , and so on . 
On pulling up the blind the servant was startled by the discovery that the whole male population of the village was massed in front , trampling down the flower beds . 
There were also a few women among them . 
The good man in his haste had tucked up his cassock as high as the top of his boots . 
The officer had been looking at the backs of the books in the bookcases . 
It's a strong , young chap that travels with our master . 
Three or four men , however , were talking with the Cossacks at the door . 
And you don't think your master has gone to join the rebels maybe eh ? asked the officer . 
Our master would be too old for that , surely . 
He's well over seventy , and he's getting feeble , too . 
It's some years now since he's been on horseback , and he can't walk much , either , now . 
The officer sat there swinging his leg , very quiet and indifferent . 
By that time the peasants who had been talking with the Cossack troopers at the door had been permitted to get into the hall . 
One or two more left the crowd and followed them in . 
They were seven in all , and among them the blacksmith , an ex soldier . 
The servant appealed deferentially to the officer . 
The officer only laughed a little , and after a while inquired Have you any arms in the house ? Yes . 
Bring them all here , onto this table . 
The servant made another attempt to obtain protection . 
Won't your honour tell these chaps . 
Meantime , the officer walked slowly through all the rooms in the house , examining them attentively but touching nothing . 
The peasants in the hall fell back and took off their caps when he passed through . 
He said nothing whatever to them . 
When he came back to the study all the arms to be found in the house were lying on the table . 
The officer , opening the window , flung out pistols , swords , and guns , one after another , and his troopers ran to pick them up . 
The peasants in the hall , encouraged by his manner , had stolen after him into the study . 
He gave not the slightest sign of being conscious of their existence , and , his business being apparently concluded , strode out of the house without a word . 
Directly he left , the peasants in the study put on their caps and began to smile at each other . 
The Cossacks rode away , passing through the yards of the home farm straight into the fields . 
The priest , still arguing with the peasants , moved gradually down the drive and his earnest eloquence was drawing the silent mob after him , away from the house . 
, the majority of them used such influence as they had over their flocks in the cause of peace and humanity . 
True to the spirit of their calling , they tried to soothe the passions of the excited peasantry , and opposed rapine and violence , whenever they could , with all their might . 
And this conduct they pursued against the express wishes of the authorities . 
Later on some of them were made to suffer for this disobedience by being removed abruptly to the far north or sent away to Siberian parishes . 
The servant was anxious to get rid of the few peasants who had got into the house . 
Every word of this was true , and so far effective that the fellows began to scratch their heads and look irresolute . 
This appeal was an unlucky inspiration . 
In crowding clumsily to the window to see whether he was speaking the truth , the fellows overturned the little writing table . 
As it fell over a chink of loose coin was heard . 
There's money in that thing , cried the blacksmith . 
In a moment the top of the delicate piece of furniture was smashed and there lay exposed in a drawer eighty half imperials . 
Gold coin was a rare sight in Russia even at that time it put the peasants beside themselves . 
There must be more of that in the house , and we shall have it , yelled the ex soldier blacksmith . 
The others were already shouting out of the window , urging the crowd to come back and help . 
The priest , abandoned suddenly at the gate , flung his arms up and hurried away so as not to see what was going to happen . 
They broke some very fine mirrors , all the windows , and every piece of glass and china . 
They threw the books and papers out on the lawn and set fire to the heap for the mere fun of the thing , apparently . 
But by that time the mob had departed , carrying off the tin box , which they supposed to be full of paper money . 
Some distance from the house , in the middle of a field , they broke it open . 
They found in side documents engrossed on parchment and the two crosses of the Legion of Honour and For Valour . 
At the sight of these objects , which , the blacksmith explained , were marks of honour given only by the Tsar , they became extremely frightened at what they had done . 
They threw the whole lot away into a ditch and dispersed hastily . 
On learning of this particular loss Mr. Nicholas B. broke down completely . 
The mere sacking of his house did not seem to affect him much . 
While he was still in bed from the shock , the two crosses were found and returned to him . 
It helped somewhat his slow convalescence , but the tin box and the parchments , though searched for in all the ditches around , never turned up again . 
Its terms haunted him apparently during the last two years of his life to such an extent that he used to repeat them to himself . 
This is confirmed by the remark made more than once by his old servant to the more intimate friends . 
What makes my heart heavy is to hear our master in his room at night walking up and down and praying aloud in the French language . 
It must have been somewhat over a year afterward that I saw Mr. Nicholas B. or , more correctly , that he saw me for the last time . 
It is inconceivable that Mr. Nicholas B. should not have been of the number . 
I do not know whether he was present on the very day of our departure . 
I have already admitted that for me he is more especially the man who in his youth had eaten roast dog in the depths of a gloomy forest of snow loaded pines . 
My memory cannot place him in any remembered scene . 
But I remember well the day of our departure back to exile . 
, the former nurse , now outdoor attendant , a handsome peasant face wearing a compassionate expression , and the good , ugly Mlle . 
Durand , the governess , with her black eyebrows meeting over a short , thick nose , and a complexion like pale brown paper . 
In three months , simply by playing with us , she had taught me not only to speak French , but to read it as well . 
She was indeed an excellent playmate . 
It seems strange that he should have been there to watch our going so carefully . 
And this good man I believe did not think so , either . 
I learned afterward why he was present on that day . 
In this uncertainty the Governor General in Kiev was petitioned to grant her a fortnight's extension of stay in her brother's house . 
, on tiptoe , so as not to attract the attention of the ladies in the house , and led him by way of the orangery to my uncle's private apartments . 
The policeman , without any preliminaries , thrust a paper into my uncle's hands . 
I have no business to show this paper to you . 
It is wrong of me . 
But I can't either eat or sleep with such a job hanging over me . 
That police captain , a native of Great Russia , had been for many years serving in the district . 
My uncle unfolded and read the document . 
to the prison hospital in Kiev , where she will be treated as her case demands . 
For God's sake , Mr. B. , see that your sister goes away punctually on that day . 
Don't give me this work to do with a woman and with one of your family , too . 
I simply cannot bear to think of it . 
He was absolutely wringing his hands . 
My uncle looked at him in silence . 
Thank you for this warning . 
I assure you that even if she were dying she would be carried out to the carriage . 
Yes indeed and what difference would it make travel to Kiev or back to her husband ? For she would have to go death or no death . 
And mind , Mr. B. , I will be here on the day , not that I doubt your promise , but because I must . 
All the same my trade is not fit for a dog since some of you Poles will persist in rebelling , and all of you have got to suffer for it . 
This is the reason why he was there in an open three horse trap pulled up between the house and the great gates . 
I regret not being able to give up his name to the scorn of all believers in the right of conquest , as a reprehensibly sensitive guardian of Imperial greatness . 
The gentleman's name was Bezak . 
A high dignitary , an energetic official , the idol for a time of the Russian patriotic press . 
Each generation has its memories . 
Having confessed that my first novel was begun in idleness a holiday task I think I have also given the impression that it was a much delayed book . 
It was never dismissed from my mind , even when the hope of ever finishing it was very faint . 
Many things came in its way daily duties , new impressions , old memories . 
It was not the outcome of a need the famous need of self expression which artists find in their search for motives . 
The necessity which impelled me was a hidden , obscure necessity , a completely masked and unaccountable phenomenon . 
had cast a spell over me through his parlour window as I explored the maze of streets east and west in solitary leisurely walks without chart and compass . 
Till I began to write that novel I had written nothing but letters , and not very many of these . 
I never made a note of a fact , of an impression , or of an anecdote in my life . 
, from the moment I had , in the simplicity of my heart and the amazing ignorance of my mind , written that page the die was cast . 
Never had Rubicon been more blindly forded without invocation to the gods , without fear of men . 
It was an unusual thing for me to do . 
And yet I was not in a hurry . 
I was composed enough to perceive after some considerable time the match box lying there on the mantelpiece right under my nose . 
And all this was beautifully and safely usual . 
Before I had thrown down the match my landlady's daughter appeared with her calm , pale face and an inquisitive look , in the doorway . 
Of late it was the landlady's daughter who answered my bell . 
I mention this little fact with pride , because it proves that during the thirty or forty days of my tenancy I had produced a favourable impression . 
For a fortnight past I had been spared the unattractive sight of the domestic slave . 
I was infinitely sensible of the privilege of being waited on by my landlady's daughter . 
She was neat if anemic . 
Will you please clear away all this at once ? I addressed her in convulsive accents , being at the same time engaged in getting my pipe to draw . 
This , I admit , was an unusual request . 
I remember that I was perfectly calm . 
As a matter of fact I was not at all certain that I wanted to write , or that I meant to write , or that I had anything to write about . 
No , I was not impatient . 
I lounged between the mantelpiece and the window , not even consciously waiting for the table to be cleared . 
It was ten to one that before my landlady's daughter was done I would pick up a book and sit down with it all the morning in a spirit of enjoyable indolence . 
I affirm it with assurance , and I don't even know now what were the books then lying about the room . 
What ever they were , they were not the works of great masters , where the secret of clear thought and exact expression can be found . 
Since the age of five I have been a great reader , as is not perhaps wonderful in a child who was never aware of learning to read . 
At ten years of age I had read much of Victor Hugo and other romantics . 
I believe it was a novel , and it is quite possible that it was one of Anthony Trollope's novels . 
My acquaintance with him was then very recent . 
He is one of the English novelists whose works I read for the first time in English . 
With men of European reputation , with Dickens and Walter Scott and Thackeray , it was otherwise . 
My first introduction to English imaginative literature was Nicholas Nickleby . 
It is extraordinary how well Mrs. Nickleby could chatter disconnectedly in Polish and the sinister Ralph rage in that language . 
As to the Crummles family and the family of the learned Squeers it seemed as natural to them as their native speech . 
It was , I have no doubt , an excellent translation . 
This must have been in the year . 
But I really believe that I am wrong . 
That book was not my first introduction to English literature . 
My first acquaintance was the Two Gentlemen of Verona , and that in the very MS . 
We were living together , quite alone , in a small house on the outskirts of the town of T . 
That afternoon , instead of going out to play in the large yard which we shared with our landlord , I had lingered in the room in which my father generally wrote . 
I was greatly confused , expecting to get into trouble . 
He stood in the doorway looking at me with some surprise , but the only thing he said after a moment of silence was Read the page aloud . 
Luckily the page lying before me was not overblotted with erasures and corrections , and my father's handwriting was otherwise extremely legible . 
When I got to the end he nodded , and I flew out of doors , thinking myself lucky to have escaped reproof for that piece of impulsive audacity . 
Such was my title to consideration , I believe , and also my first introduction to the sea in literature . 
If I do not remember where , how , and when I learned to read , I am not likely to forget the process of being trained in the art of reading aloud . 
My poor father , an admirable reader himself , was the most exacting of masters . 
I reflect proudly that I must have read that page of Two Gentlemen of Verona tolerably well at the age of eight . 
The next time I met them was in a s . 
We had run in , in a sinking condition and with the crew refusing duty after a month of weary battling with the gales of the North Atlantic . 
, and with the year of hard gales , the year in which I came nearest to death at sea , first by water and then by fire . 
Those things I remember , but what I was reading the day before my writing life began I have forgotten . 
I have only a vague notion that it might have been one of Trollope's political novels . 
And I remember , too , the character of the day . 
It was one of those London days that have the charm of mysterious amenity , of fascinating softness . 
The effect of opaline mist was often repeated at Bessborough Gardens on account of the nearness to the river . 
I heard her put the tray down in the passage and finally shut the door and still I remained smoking , with my back to the room . 
It is very clear that I was in no haste to take the plunge into my writing life , if as plunge this first attempt may be described . 
My whole being was steeped deep in the indolence of a sailor away from the sea , the scene of never ending labour and of unceasing duty . 
For utter surrender to in indolence you cannot beat a sailor ashore when that mood is on him the mood of absolute irresponsibility tasted to the full . 
It seems to me that I thought of nothing whatever , but this is an impression which is hardly to be believed at this distance of years . 
What I am certain of is that I was very far from thinking of writing a story , though it is possible and even likely that I was thinking of the man Almayer . 
Barring a small dug out canoe on the river there was nothing moving within sight . 
I had just come up yawning from my cabin . 
The serang and the Malay crew were overhauling the cargo chains and trying the winches their voices sounded subdued on the deck below , and their movements were languid . 
That tropical daybreak was chilly . 
The Malay quartermaster , coming up to get something from the lockers on the bridge , shivered visibly . 
He stepped upon the jetty . 
and a thin cotton singlet with short sleeves . 
His arms , bare to the elbow , were crossed on his chest . 
His black hair looked as if it had not been cut for a very long time , and a curly wisp of it strayed across his forehead . 
At least I heard his name distinctly pronounced several times in a lot of talk in Malay language . 
Oh , yes , I heard it quite distinctly Almayer , Almayer and saw Captain C smile , while the fat , dingy Rajah laughed audibly . 
To hear a Malay Rajah laugh outright is a rare experience , I can as sure you . 
as they sat all over the ship each man fenced round with bundles and boxes on mats , on pillows , on quilts , on billets of wood , conversing of Island affairs . 
But who knows ? The importation of that Bali pony might have been part of some deep scheme , of some diplomatic plan , of some hopeful intrigue . 
With Almayer one could never tell . 
He governed his conduct by considerations removed from the obvious , by incredible assumptions , which rendered his logic impenetrable to any reasonable person . 
I learned all this later . 
That morning , seeing the figure in pajamas moving in the mist , I said to myself , That's the man . 
He came quite close to the ship's side and raised a harassed countenance , round and flat , with that curl of black hair over the forehead and a heavy , pained glance . 
Didn't expect you till this evening , he remarked , suspiciously . 
I didn't know why he should have been aggrieved , but he seemed to be . 
Captain C knows this river like his own pocket , I concluded , discursively , trying to get on terms . 
Leaning over the rail of the bridge , I looked at Almayer , who looked down at the wharf in aggrieved thought . 
He shuffled his feet a little he wore straw slippers with thick soles . 
The morning fog had thickened considerably . 
Everything round us dripped the derricks , the rails , every single rope in the ship as if a fit of crying had come upon the universe . 
I was very anxious to have him landed before I began to handle the cargo . 
Almayer remained looking up at me for a long while , with incredulous and melancholy eyes , as though it were not a safe thing to believe in my statement . 
This pathetic mistrust in the favourable issue of any sort of affair touched me deeply , and I added He doesn't seem a bit the worse for the passage . 
He's a nice pony , too . 
Almayer was not to be cheered up for all answer he cleared his throat and looked down again at his feet . 
I tried to close with him on another tack . 
By Jove ! I said . 
His answer was a sinister No fear , as much as to say that even that way of escape from inclement fortune was closed to him . 
he mumbled after a while . 
Well , then , now you're here I will land that pony for you at once , and you can lead him home . 
I really don't want him on deck . 
I insisted Why , I will just swing him out and land him on the wharf right in front of you . 
I'd much rather do it before the hatches are off . 
The little devil may jump down the hold or do some other deadly thing . 
There's a halter ? postulated Almayer . 
Yes , of course there's a halter . 
And without waiting any more I leaned over the bridge rail . 
Serang , land Tuan Almayer's pony . 
The cook hastened to shut the door of the galley , and a moment later a great scuffle began on deck . 
The pony kicked with extreme energy , the kalashes skipped out of the way , the serang issued many orders in a cracked voice . 
Suddenly the pony leaped upon the fore hatch . 
His little hoofs thundered tremendously he plunged and reared . 
He had tossed his mane and his forelock into a state of amazing wildness , he dilated his nostrils , bits of foam flecked his broad little chest , his eyes blazed . 
He whisked his tail incessantly he arched his pretty neck he was perfectly delightful he was charmingly naughty . 
There was not an atom of vice in that performance no savage baring of teeth and laying back of ears . 
On the contrary , he pricked them forward in a comically aggressive manner . 
He was totally unmoral and lovable I would have liked to give him bread , sugar , carrots . 
But life is a stern thing and the sense of duty the only safe guide . 
So I steeled my heart , and from my elevated position on the bridge I ordered the men to fling themselves upon him in a body . 
The elderly serang , emitting a strange , inarticulate cry , gave the example . 
He was an excellent petty officer very competent , indeed , and a moderate opium smoker . 
The rest of them in one great rush smothered that pony . 
They hung on to his ears , to his mane , to his tail they lay in piles across his back , seventeen in all . 
The carpenter , seizing the hook of the cargo chain , flung himself on the top of them . 
A very satisfactory petty officer , too , but he stuttered . 
Have you ever heard a light yellow , lean , sad , earnest Chinaman stutter in Pidgin English ? It's very weird , indeed . 
I could not see the pony at all but from the swaying and heaving of that heap of men I knew that there was something alive inside . 
I looked over What is it ? Don't let them break his legs , he entreated me , plaintively . 
Oh , nonsense ! He's all right now . 
Steady ! I yelled , in great apprehension of seeing the animal snatched up to the very head of the derrick . 
On the wharf Almayer shuffled his straw slippers uneasily . 
The rattle of the winch stopped , and in a tense , impressive silence that pony began to swing across the deck . 
How limp he was ! Directly he felt himself in the air he relaxed every muscle in a most wonderful manner . 
His four hoofs knocked together in a bunch , his head hung down , and his tail remained pendent in a nerveless and absolute immobility . 
He reminded me vividly of the pathetic little sheep which hangs on the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece . 
I had no idea that anything in the shape of a horse could be so limp as that , either living or dead . 
A trustworthy quartermaster , his glance anxious and his mouth on the broad grin , was easing over the derrick watchfully . 
I superintended , greatly interested . 
So ! That will do . 
The kalashes lined the rail . 
The rope of the halter hung perpendicular and motionless like a bell pull in front of Almayer . 
I suggested amicably that he should catch hold of the rope and mind what he was about . 
He extended a provokingly casual and superior hand . 
I suppose I must have blinked . 
I know I missed something , because the next thing I saw was Almayer lying flat on his back on the jetty . 
Astonishment deprived me of speech long enough to give Almayer time to pick himself up in a leisurely and painful manner . 
The kalashes lining the rail all had their mouths open . 
The mist flew in the light breeze , and it had come over quite thick enough to hide the shore completely . 
How on earth did you manage to let him get away ? I asked , scandalized . 
Almayer looked into the smarting palm of his right hand , but did not answer my inquiry . 
Where do you think he will get to ? I cried . 
Are there any fences anywhere in this fog ? Can he bolt into the forest ? What's to be done now ? Almayer shrugged his shoulders . 
Some of my men are sure to be about . 
They will get hold of him sooner or later . 
Sooner or later ! That's all very fine , but what about my canvas sling ? he's carried it off . 
I want it now , at once , to land two Celebes cows . 
Since Dongola we had on board a pair of the pretty little island cattle in addition to the pony . 
Tied up on the other side of the fore deck they had been whisking their tails into the other door of the galley . 
These cows were not for Almayer , however they were invoiced to Abdullah bin Selim , his enemy . 
Almayer's disregard of my requirements was complete . 
If I were you I would try to find out where he's gone , I insisted . 
Hadn't you better call your men together or something ? He will throw himself down and cut his knees . 
He may even break a leg , you know . 
But Almayer , plunged in abstracted thought , did not seem to want that pony any more . 
The whole crew of the steamer , with the exception of firemen and engineers , rushed up the jetty , past the thoughtful Almayer , and vanished from my sight . 
The white fog swallowed them up and again there was a deep silence that seemed to extend for miles up and down the stream . 
Still taciturn , Almayer started to climb on board , and I went down from the bridge to meet him on the after deck . 
Would you mind telling the captain that I want to see him very particularly ? he asked me , in a low tone , letting his eyes stray all over the place . 
I will go and see . 
Mr. Almayer told me he wanted to see you very particularly , sir . 
Saying these words , I smiled . 
I don't know why I smiled , except that it seemed absolutely impossible to mention Almayer's name without a smile of a sort . 
It had not to be necessarily a mirthful smile . 
Turning his head toward me , Captain C smiled , too , rather joylessly . 
The pony got away from him eh ? Yes , sir . 
Where is he ? Goodness only knows . 
He strolled up moodily , shook hands , and at once asked permission to shut the cabin door . 
I have a pretty story to tell you , were the last words I heard . 
The bitterness of tone was remarkable . 
I went away from the door , of course . 
Having nothing to do I joined our two engineers at the door of the engine room . 
It was near breakfast time . 
He's turned up early , hasn't he ? commented the second engineer , and smiled indifferently . 
He was an abstemious man , with a good digestion and a placid , reasonable view of life even when hungry . 
Shut up with the old man . 
He will spin him a damned endless yarn , observed the chief engineer . 
He was dyspeptic , and suffered from gnawing hunger in the morning . 
The second smiled broadly , a smile that made two vertical folds on his shaven cheeks . 
And I smiled , too , but I was not exactly amused . 
In that man , whose name apparently could not be uttered anywhere in the Malay Archipelago without a smile , there was nothing amusing whatever . 
That morning he breakfasted with us silently , looking mostly into his cup . 
I informed him that my men came upon his pony capering in the fog on the very brink of the eight foot deep well in which he kept his store of guttah . 
The cover was off , with no one near by , and the whole of my crew just missed going heels over head into that beastly hole . 
Jurumudi Itam , our best quartermaster , deft at fine needlework , he who mended the ship's flags and sewed buttons on our coats , was disabled by a kick on the shoulder . 
Both remorse and gratitude seemed foreign to Almayer's character . 
He mumbled Do you mean that pirate fellow ? What pirate fellow ? The man has been in the ship eleven years , I said , indignantly . 
It's his looks , Almayer muttered , for all apology . 
The sun had eaten up the fog . 
From where we sat under the after awning we could see in the distance the pony tied up , in front of Almayer's house , to a post of the veranda . 
We were silent for a long time . 
In the course of the morning I approached him for a moment . 
Well , Mr. Almayer , I addressed him , easily , you haven't started on your letters yet . 
We had brought him his mail , and he had held the bundle in his hand ever since we got up from breakfast . 
He glanced at it when I spoke , and for a moment it looked as if he were on the point of opening his fingers and letting the whole lot fall overboard . 
I believe he was tempted to do so . 
I shall never forget that man afraid of his letters . 
Have you been long out from Europe ? he asked me . 
Not quite eight months , I told him . 
I left a ship in Samarang with a hurt back , and have been in the hospital in Singapore some weeks . 
Trade is very bad here . 
See these geese ? With the hand holding the letters he pointed out to me what resembled a patch of snow creeping and swaying across the distant part of his compound . 
It disappeared behind some bushes . 
The only geese on the East Coast , Almayer informed me , in a perfunctory mutter without a spark of faith , hope , or pride . 
I had heard of these largesses before . 
He conferred a goose as if it were a sort of court decoration given only to the tried friends of the house . 
I had expected more pomp in the ceremony . 
The gift had surely its special quality , multiple and rare . 
From the only flock on the East Coast ! He did not make half enough of it . 
That man did not understand his opportunities . 
However , I thanked him at some length . 
You see , he interrupted , abruptly , in a very peculiar tone , the worst of this country is that one is not able to realize . 
His voice sank into a languid mutter . 
And when one has very large interests . 
We looked at each other . 
He astonished me by giving a start and making a very queer grimace . 
Well , I must be off , he burst out , hurriedly . 
I don't think it could have been possible for me to refuse . 
I like the worthy folk who will talk to you of the exercise of free will , at any rate for practical purposes . 
Free , is it ? For practical purposes ! Bosh ! How could I have refused to dine with that man ? I did not refuse , simply because I could not refuse . 
A refusal would have appeared perverse and insane . 
Nobody , unless a surly lunatic , would have refused . 
But if I had not got to know Almayer pretty well it is almost certain there would never have been a line of mine in print . 
I accepted then and I am paying yet the price of my sanity . 
The possessor of the only flock of geese on the East Coast is responsible for the existence of some fourteen volumes , so far . 
The number of geese he had called into being under adverse climatic conditions was considerably more than fourteen . 
I wonder , had he known anything of it , what his attitude would have been ? This is something not to be discovered in this world . 
But that is a very small larceny . 
You came to me stripped of all prestige by men's queer smiles and the disrespectful chatter of every vagrant trader in the Islands . 
Your name was the common property of the winds it , as it were , floated naked over the waters about the equator . 
In your earthly life you haunted me , Almayer . 
Consider that this was taking a great liberty . 
No doubt ! But reflect , O complaining Shade ! that this was not so much my fault as your crowning misfortune . 
I believed in you in the only way it was possible for me to believe . 
It was not worthy of your merits ? So be it . 
But you were always an unlucky man , Almayer . 
Nothing was ever quite worthy of you . 
What made you so real to me was that you held this lofty theory with some force of conviction and with an admirable consistency . 
In my own case I cannot trace it back to any mental or psychological cause which one could point out and hold to . 
The greatest of my gifts being a consummate capacity for doing nothing , I cannot even point to boredom as a rational stimulus for taking up a pen . 
The pen , at any rate , was there , and there is nothing wonderful in that . 
in his rooms , in this enlightened age of penny stamps and halfpenny post cards . 
In fact , this was the epoch when by means of postcard and pen Mr. Gladstone had made the reputation of a novel or two . 
Where , indeed ! It might have been reposing behind the sofa for a day or so . 
, though commendably neat , had a lordly , careless manner of approaching her domestic duties . 
But not me ! Never mind . 
There are imaginings too unlikely for any kind of notice , too wild for indulgence itself , too absurd for a smile . 
Perhaps , had that seer of the future been a friend , I should have been secretly saddened . 
Alas ! I would have thought , looking at him with an unmoved face , the poor fellow is going mad . 
To survey with wonder the changes of one's own self is a fascinating pursuit for idle hours . 
Neither am I thinking of those ambitious minds who , always looking forward to some aim of aggrandizement , can spare no time for a detached , impersonal glance upon them selves . 
the whole universe vanishes into blank nothingness , miss , perhaps , the true task of us men whose day is short on this earth , the abode of conflicting opinions . 
Chi lo sa ? It may be true . 
, or , again , to a properly steeled heart , may matter nothing at all . 
the reader assuming a subtle expression , as if the cat were out of the bag . 
I take the novelist's freedom to observe the reader's mind formulating the exclamation That's it ! The fellow talks pro domo . 
Indeed it was not the intention ! When I shouldered the bag I was not aware of the cat inside . 
But , after all , why not ? The fair courtyards of the House of Art are thronged by many humble retainers . 
And there is no retainer so devoted as he who is allowed to sit on the doorstep . 
The fellows who have got inside are apt to think too much of themselves . 
This last remark , I beg to state , is not malicious within the definition of the law of libel . 
It's fair comment on a matter of public interest . 
For his house tant que vous voudrez . 
And yet in truth I was by no means anxious to justify my existence . 
The attempt would have been not only needless and absurd , but almost inconceivable , in a purely spectacular universe , where no such disagreeable necessity can possibly arise . 
But then , you see , the man was not a writer of fiction . 
He had no imagination , as the most casual perusal of Emile will prove . 
He was no novelist , whose first virtue is the exact understanding of the limits traced by the reality of his time to the play of his invention . 
Inspiration comes from the earth , which has a past , a history , a future , not from the cold and immutable heaven . 
stands confessed in his works . 
His conscience , his deeper sense of things , lawful and unlawful , gives him his attitude before the world . 
can speak of nothing else . 
This remark , if I remember rightly , was made in the course of a sparring match with the late Ferdinand Brunetiere over the principles and rules of literary criticism . 
And that may be very true . 
Rules , principles , and standards die and vanish every day . 
Perhaps they are all dead and vanished by this time . 
is , before everything else , a critical animal . 
For Englishmen especially , of all the races of the earth , a task , any task , undertaken in an adventurous spirit acquires the merit of romance . 
But the critics as a rule exhibit but little of an adventurous spirit . 
They take risks , of course one can hardly live with out that . 
with a pinch of salt . 
Otherwise one would get sick of the diet one prays for , and that would be not only improper , but impious . 
Neither is the writing of novels . 
Je vous donne ma parole d'honneur that it is not . 
I am thus emphatic because some years ago , I remember , the daughter of a general . 
And thus this general's daughter came to me or I should say one of the general's daughters did . 
There were three of these bachelor ladies , of nicely graduated ages , who held a neighbouring farm house in a united and more or less military occupation . 
The eldest warred against the decay of manners in the village children , and executed frontal attacks upon the village mothers for the conquest of courtesies . 
It sounds futile , but it was really a war for an idea . 
The second skirmished and scouted all over the country and it was that one who pushed a reconnaissance right to my very table I mean the one who wore stand up collars . 
She was really calling upon my wife in the soft spirit of afternoon friendliness , but with her usual martial determination . 
She marched into my room swinging her stick . 
but no I mustn't exaggerate . 
It is not my specialty . 
I am not a humoristic writer . 
In all soberness , then , all I am certain of is that she had a stick to swing . 
No ditch or wall encompassed my abode . 
The window was open the door , too , stood open to that best friend of my work , the warm , still sunshine of the wide fields . 
seaboard , which is still mentioned now and again , and indeed kindly , sometimes in connection with the word failure and sometimes in conjunction with the word astonishing . 
I have no opinion on this discrepancy . 
It's the sort of difference that can never be settled . 
Yet a certain longitude , once won , cannot be disputed . 
How do you do ? It was the greeting of the general's daughter . 
I had heard nothing no rustle , no footsteps . 
Oh ! How do you do ? Won't you sit down ? That's what I said . 
This horrible but , I assure you , perfectly true reminiscence tells you more than a whole volume of confessions a la Jean Jacques Rousseau would do . 
, dominated even after death the dark gulf containing his conquests of treasure and love all that had come down crashing about my ears . 
I felt I could never pick up the pieces and in that very moment I was saying , Won't you sit down ? The sea is strong medicine . 
who had the last say in the formation of my character . 
One is nothing if not modest , but in this disaster I think I have done some honour to their simple teaching . 
Won't you sit down ? Very fair very fair , indeed . 
Her amused glance strayed all over the room . 
There were pages of MS . 
Long ! I suppose I went to bed sometimes , and got up the same number of times . 
Yes , I suppose I slept , and ate the food put before me , and talked connectedly to my household on suitable occasions . 
But I had never been aware of the even flow of daily life , made easy and noiseless for me by a silent , watchful , tireless affection . 
Indeed , it seemed to me that I had been sitting at that table surrounded by the litter of a desperate fray for days and nights on end . 
, so I ought to know . 
I am jealous of their honour and concerned for the dignity and comeliness of their service . 
No doubt that would be all right in essentials . 
The fortune of the house included a pair of gray blue watchful eyes that would see to that . 
But I felt , somehow , as grimy as a Costaguana lepero after a day's fighting in the streets , rumpled all over and dishevelled down to my very heels . 
And I am afraid I blinked stupidly . 
All this was bad for the honour of letters and the dignity of their service . 
Seen indistinctly through the dust of my collapsed universe , the good lady glanced about the room with a slightly amused serenity . 
What on earth was she smiling at ? She remarked casually I am afraid I interrupted you . 
She accepted the denial in perfect good faith . 
And it was strictly true . 
She remained silent for a while , then said , with a last glance all round at the litter of the fray And you sit like this here writing your your . 
I what ? Oh , yes ! I sit here all day . 
It must be perfectly delightful . 
We went out hastily and separated the gallant animals . 
Afterward I told the lady where she would find my wife just round the corner , under the trees . 
Nevertheless , later on , I duly escorted her to the field gate . 
the dog of my child ? No , I was not afraid . 
But away with the Ollendorff method . 
His art did not obtain , I fear , all the credit its unsophisticated inspiration deserved . 
He had not the time . 
It was an individual and complete talent which obtained but a grudging , somewhat supercilious recognition from the world at large . 
For himself one hesitates to regret his early death . 
I confess to an abiding affection for that energetic , slight , fragile , intensely living and transient figure . 
He used to point out to me with great earnestness , and even with some severity , that a boy OUGHT to have a dog . 
I suspect that he was shocked at my neglect of parental duties . 
Ultimately it was he who provided the dog . 
That was not to be . 
He was not given the time . 
But here is the dog an old dog now . 
Grotesque and engaging in the whole of his appearance , his usual attitudes are meek , but his temperament discloses itself unexpectedly pugnacious in the presence of his kind . 
The general's daughter would tell you that it must be perfectly delightful . 
the while , with incredible self command , you preserve a rigid immobility for fear of overturning the little two legged creature . 
But we have lived together many years . 
I am conscious of it in these pages . 
This remark is put forward in no apologetic spirit . 
As years go by and the number of pages grows steadily , the feeling grows upon one , too , that one can write only for friends . 
Fishing is notoriously a matter of luck . 
As to one's enemies , they will take care of themselves . 
There is a gentleman , for instance , who , metaphorically speaking , jumps upon me with both feet . 
This image has no grace , but it is exceedingly apt to the occasion to the several occasions . 
I don't know precisely how long he has been indulging in that intermittent exercise , whose seasons are ruled by the custom of the publishing trade . 
to my attention some time ago , and straightway I experienced a sort of reluctant affection for that robust man . 
He leaves not a shred of my substance untrodden for the writer's substance is his writing the rest of him is but a vain shadow , cherished or hated on uncritical grounds . 
Not a shred ! Yet the sentiment owned to is not a freak of affectation or perversity . 
It has a deeper , and , I venture to think , a more estimable origin than the caprice of emotional lawlessness . 
for a consideration , for several considerations . 
There is that robustness , for instance , so often the sign of good moral balance . 
This is the most fatuous adventure that can well happen to a writer venturing his soul among criticisms . 
It can do one no harm , of course , but it is disagreeable . 
It is disagreeable in the same way as discovering a three card trick man among a decent lot of folk in a third class compartment . 
The honest violence of a plain man playing a fair game fairly even if he means to knock you over may appear shocking , but it remains within the pale of decency . 
Damaging as it may be , it is in no sense offensive . 
One may well feel some regard for honesty , even if practised upon one's own vile body . 
But it is very obvious that an enemy of that sort will not be stayed by explanations or placated by apologies . 
Perhaps I should not have used the word literary . 
That word presupposes an intimacy of acquaintance with letters , a turn of mind , and a manner of feeling to which I dare lay no claim . 
I only love letters but the love of letters does not make a literary man , any more than the love of the sea makes a seaman . 
God forbid , though , that I should be thought of as denying my masters of the quarter deck . 
I am not capable of that sort of apostasy . 
What I meant to say , simply , is that the quarter deck training does not prepare one sufficiently for the reception of literary criticism . 
Only that , and no more . 
But this defect is not without gravity . 
Far be from me the intention to mislead an attentive public into the belief that there is no criticism at sea . 
That would be dishonest , and even impolite . 
But the quarter deck criticism is somewhat different from literary criticism . 
This much they have in common , that before the one and the other the answering back , as a general rule , does not pay . 
With appreciation , which comes at the end , when the critic and the criticised are about to part , it is otherwise . 
The sea appreciation of one's humble talents has the permanency of the written word , seldom the charm of variety , is formal in its phrasing . 
There the literary master has the superiority , though he , too , can in effect but say and often says it in the very phrase I can highly recommend . 
Only usually he uses the word We , there being some occult virtue in the first person plural which makes it specially fit for critical and royal declarations . 
For that spoil ! They rustle , those bits of paper some dozen of them in all . 
I do not know whether I have been a good seaman , but I know I have been a very faithful one . 
And , after all , there is that handful of characters from various ships to prove that all these years have not been altogether a dream . 
There they are , brief , and monotonous in tone , but as suggestive bits of writing to me as any inspired page to be found in literature . 
But then , you see , I have been called romantic . 
Well , that can't be helped . 
I seem to remember that I have been called a realist , also . 
And as that charge , too , can be made out , let us try to live up to it , at whatever cost , for a change . 
Did I overhear a civil murmur , That's very gratifying , to be sure ? Well , yes , it is gratifying thank you . 
The above prosaic reflection is put down here only in order to prove the general sobriety of my judgment in mundane affairs . 
So be it ! Who could cavil at the words of a friendly reader ? Yet perhaps not such an unconditional dreamer as all that . 
I will make bold to say that neither at sea nor ashore have I ever lost the sense of responsibility . 
There is more than one sort of intoxication . 
It is but a maudlin and indecent verity that comes out through the strength of wine . 
I have tried to be a sober worker all my life all my two lives . 
I did so from taste , no doubt , having an instinctive horror of losing my sense of full self possession , but also from artistic conviction . 
As to my sea sobriety , that is quite properly certified under the sign manual of several trustworthy shipmasters of some standing in their time . 
I seem to hear your polite murmur that Surely this might have been taken for granted . 
It might not have been . 
That August academical body , the Marine Department of the Board of Trade , takes nothing for granted in the granting of its learned degrees . 
The door of the examination rooms shall remain closed to your tears and entreaties . 
The most fanatical advocate of temperance could not be more pitilessly fierce in his rectitude than the Marine Department of the Board of Trade . 
Three of them were examiners in seamanship , and it was my fate to be delivered into the hands of each of them at proper intervals of sea service . 
His old , thin hands loosely clasped resting on his crossed legs , he began by an elementary question , in a mild voice , and went on , went on . 
It lasted for hours , for hours . 
Had I been a strange microbe with potentialities of deadly mischief to the Merchant Service I could not have been submitted to a more microscopic examination . 
Greatly reassured by his apparent benevolence , I had been at first very alert in my answers . 
But at length the feeling of my brain getting addled crept upon me . 
And still the passionless process went on , with a sense of untold ages having been spent already on mere preliminaries . 
I was not frightened of being plucked that eventuality did not even present itself to my mind . 
It was something much more serious and weird . 
This ancient person , I said to myself , terrified , is so near his grave that he must have lost all notion of time . 
He is considering this examination in terms of eternity . 
It is all very well for him . 
This statement is not so much of a verbal exaggeration as may be supposed . 
Some very queer thoughts passed through my head while I was considering my answers thoughts which had nothing to do with seamanship , nor yet with anything reasonable known to this earth . 
I verily believe that at times I was light headed in a sort of languid way . 
He extended the scrap of paper to me without a word , inclined his white head gravely to my parting bow . 
How long have I been in there ? I asked , faintly . 
He pulled out his watch . 
He kept you , sir , just under three hours . 
I don't think this ever happened with any of the gentlemen before . 
It was only when I got out of the building that I began to walk on air . 
The solitary tenant was unknown to me by sight , though not by reputation , which was simply execrable . 
de Medici shading his face on the tomb by Michael Angelo , though , of course , he was far , far from being beautiful . 
He began by trying to make me talk nonsense . 
But I had been warned of that fiendish trait , and contradicted him with great assurance . 
After a while he left off . 
But his immobility , the thick elbow on the table , the abrupt , unhappy voice , the shaded and averted face grew more and more impressive . 
all very clear and precise ordered me to execute a certain manoeuvre . 
Before I was half through with it he did some material damage to the ship . 
I felt slightly outraged by this ingenuity in piling trouble upon a man . 
I wouldn't have got into that mess , I suggested , mildly . 
I could have seen that ship before . 
He never stirred the least bit . 
Oh ! I didn't know , I apologized blankly . 
I suppose that after all I managed to stave off the smash with sufficient approach to verisimilitude , and the ghastly business went on . 
That imaginary ship seemed to labour under a most comprehensive curse . 
It's no use enlarging on these never ending misfortunes suffice it to say that long before the end I would have welcomed with gratitude an opportunity to exchange into the Flying Dutchman . 
and provided me with a lee shore with outlying sand banks the Dutch coast , presumably . 
The evidence of such implacable animosity deprived me of speech for quite half a minute . 
Well , he said for our pace had been very smart , indeed , till then . 
I will have to think a little , sir . 
Doesn't look as if there were much time to think , he muttered , sardonically , from under his hand . 
No , sir , I said , with some warmth . 
Not on board a ship , I could see . 
But so many accidents have happened that I really can't remember what there's left for me to work with . 
Still half averted , and with his eyes concealed , he made unexpectedly a grunting remark . 
Have I the two anchors at the bow , sir ? I asked . 
But there's only one cable . 
She would have to go . 
Nothing more to do , eh ? No , sir . 
I could do no more . 
He gave a bitter half laugh . 
You could always say your prayers . 
He got up , stretched himself , and yawned slightly . 
It was a sallow , strong , unamiable face . 
And in my heart of hearts I had no objection to meeting that examiner once more when the third and last ordeal became due in another year or so . 
I even hoped I should . 
I knew the worst of him now , and forty minutes is not an unreasonable time . 
Yes , I distinctly hoped . 
But not a bit of it . 
He commenced operations with an easy going Let's see . 
Suppose you tell me all you know of charter parties . 
What's your idea of a jury rudder now ? he queried , suddenly , at the end of an instructive anecdote bearing upon a point of stowage . 
I warned him that I had no experience of a lost rudder at sea , and gave him two classical examples of makeshifts out of a text book . 
In exchange he described to me a jury rudder he had invented himself years before , when in command of a three thousand ton steamer . 
It was , I declare , the cleverest contrivance imaginable . 
May be of use to you some day , he concluded . 
You will go into steam presently . 
I never went into steam not really . 
Before the examination was over he imparted to me a few interesting details of the transport service in the time of the Crimean War . 
The use of wire rigging became general about that time , too , he observed . 
I was a very young master then . 
That was before you were born . 
I am of the year of . 
His experience was for me , too , as though he had been an ancestor . 
with laborious care on the slip of blue paper , he remarked You are of Polish extraction . 
He laid down the pen and leaned back to look at me as it were for the first time . 
Not many of your nationality in our service , I should think . 
I never remember meeting one either before or after I left the sea . 
Don't remember ever hearing of one . 
An inland people , aren't you ? I said yes very much so . 
We were remote from the sea not only by situation , but also from a complete absence of indirect association , not being a commercial nation at all , but purely agricultural . 
It was a matter of deliberate choice . 
I did not want to present myself to the British Merchant Service in an altogether green state . 
It was no use telling him that my mysterious vocation was so strong that my very wild oats had to be sown at sea . 
It was the exact truth , but he would not have understood the somewhat exceptional psychology of my sea going , I fear . 
I suppose you've never come across one of your countrymen at sea . 
Have you , now ? I admitted I never had . 
The examiner had given himself up to the spirit of gossiping idleness . 
For myself , I was in no haste to leave that room . 
The era of examinations was over . 
I would never again see that friendly man who was a professional ancestor , a sort of grandfather in the craft . 
Moreover , I had to wait till he dismissed me , and of that there was no sign . 
As he remained silent , looking at me , I added But I have heard of one , some years ago . 
He seems to have been a boy serving his time on board a Liverpool ship , if I am not mistaken . 
What was his name ? I told him . 
How did you say that ? he asked , puckering up his eyes at the uncouth sound . 
I repeated the name very distinctly . 
How do you spell it ? I told him . 
He moved his head at the impracticable nature of that name , and observed It's quite as long as your own isn't it ? There was no hurry . 
I had passed for master , and I had all the rest of my life before me to make the best of it . 
That seemed a long time . 
I went leisurely through a small mental calculation , and said Not quite . 
Shorter by two letters , sir . 
Is it ? The examiner pushed the signed blue slip across the table to me , and rose from his chair . 
He offered me his hand and wished me well . 
He even made a few steps toward the door with me , and ended with good natured advice . 
I don't know what may be your plans , but you ought to go into steam . 
When a man has got his master's certificate it's the proper time . 
If I were you I would go into steam . 
I thanked him , and shut the door behind me definitely on the era of examinations . 
But that time I did not walk on air , as on the first two occasions . 
I walked across the hill of many beheadings with measured steps . 
It was a fact , I said to myself , that I was now a British master mariner beyond a doubt . 
That fact , satisfactory and obscure in itself , had for me a certain ideal significance . 
It was an answer to certain outspoken scepticism and even to some not very kind aspersions . 
I had vindicated myself from what had been cried upon as a stupid obstinacy or a fantastic caprice . 
I don't mean to say that a whole country had been convulsed by my desire to go to sea . 
But for a boy between fifteen and sixteen , sensitive enough , in all conscience , the commotion of his little world had seemed a very considerable thing indeed . 
So considerable that , absurdly enough , the echoes of it linger to this day . 
I understood no more than the people who called upon me to explain myself . 
I verily believe mine was the only case of a boy of my nationality and antecedents taking a , so to speak , standing jump out of his racial surroundings and associations . 
For you must understand that there was no idea of any sort of career in my call . 
Of Russia or Germany there could be no question . 
The nationality , the antecedents , made it impossible . 
The feeling against the Austrian service was not so strong , and I dare say there would have been no difficulty in finding my way into the Naval School at Pola . 
It would have meant six months' extra grinding at German , perhaps but I was not past the age of admission , and in other respects I was well qualified . 
This expedient to palliate my folly was thought of but not by me . 
I must admit that in that respect my negative was accepted at once . 
That order of feeling was comprehensible enough to the most inimical of my critics . 
I was not called upon to offer explanations but the truth is that what I had in view was not a naval career , but the sea . 
There seemed no way open to it but through France . 
I had the language , at any rate , and of all the countries in Europe it is with France that Poland has most connection . 
There were some facilities for having me a little looked after , at first . 
I watched all these preparations gratefully , and kept my own counsel . 
But what I told the last of my examiners was perfectly true . 
Already the determined resolve that if a seaman , then an English seaman was formulated in my head , though , of course , in the Polish language . 
I did not know six words of English , and I was astute enough to understand that it was much better to say nothing of my purpose . 
As it was I was already looked upon as partly insane , at least by the more distant acquaintances . 
The principal thing was to get away . 
I put my trust in the good natured Solary's very civil letter to my uncle , though I was shocked a little by the phrase about the metier de chien . 
He was as jovial and good natured as any boy could desire . 
He gave me a delightful waking , and his friendliness was unwearied but I fear he did not enter upon the quest for a ship for me in a very solemn spirit . 
He had been at sea himself , but had left off at the age of twenty five , finding he could earn his living on shore in a much more agreeable manner . 
He was related to an incredible number of Marseilles well to do families of a certain class . 
was a dignitary of a kind , the Syndic of the Pilots . 
I made acquaintances among these people , but mainly among the pilots . 
They were hospitable souls , these sturdy Provencal seamen . 
Under the general designation of le petit ami de Baptistin I was made the guest of the corporation of pilots , and had the freedom of their boats night or day . 
And many a day and a night , too , did I spend cruising with these rough , kindly men , under whose auspices my intimacy with the sea began . 
The first operation of seamanship I had an opportunity of observing was the boarding of ships at sea , at all times , in all states of the weather . 
They gave it to me to the full . 
I had also other acquaintances of quite a different sort . 
She belonged to one of the old aristocratic families in the south . 
He belonged to the haute bourgeoisie only , and was a banker , with whom a modest credit had been opened for my needs . 
You must admit that in a banker of the nineteenth century it was a quaint idiosyncrasy . 
clerks , sitting in the perpetual gloom of heavily barred windows behind the sombre , ancient counters , beneath lofty ceilings with heavily molded cornices . 
I always felt , on going out , as though I had been in the temple of some very dignified but completely temporal religion . 
Allons , montez , jeune homme . 
She expressed no opinions , and talked to me very little yet her portrait hangs in the gallery of my intimate memories , fixed there by a short and fleeting episode . 
One day , after putting me down at the corner of a street , she offered me her hand , and detained me , by a slight pressure , for a moment . 
I had never seen her face so close to mine before . 
She made my heart beat and caused me to remain thoughtful for a whole evening . 
Certainly one must , after all , take care not to spoil one's life . 
But she did not know nobody could know how impossible that danger seemed to me . 
It sounded to me very bizarre and , uttered as it was in the very presence of my enchantress , like the voice of folly , the voice of ignorance . 
But I was not so callous or so stupid as not to recognize there also the voice of kindness . 
And then the vagueness of the warning because what can be the meaning of the phrase to spoil one's life ? arrested one's attention by its air of wise profundity . 
At any rate , as I have said before , the words of la belle Madame Delestang made me thoughtful for a whole evening . 
I tried to understand and tried in vain , not having any notion of life as an enterprise that could be mi managed . 
I knew where she would be waiting for her crew , in the little bit of a canal behind the fort at the entrance of the harbour . 
The deserted quays looked very white and dry in the moonlight , and as if frostbound in the sharp air of that December night . 
Only here and there a small , dingy cafe for sailors cast a yellow gleam on the bluish sheen of the flagstones . 
Passing by , one heard a deep murmur of voices inside nothing more . 
I flattened myself against the wall and gasped . 
It was a stunning experience . 
Pilots of the Third Company hastening to embark . 
Too sleepy to be talkative , they step on board in silence . 
But a few low grunts and an enormous yawn are heard . 
Somebody even ejaculates Ah ! Coquin de sort ! and sighs wearily at his hard fate . 
, a broad shouldered , deep chested man of forty , with a keen , frank glance which always seeks your eyes . 
He greets me by a low , hearty He , l'ami . 
For there is such a type in which the volatile southern passion is transmuted into solid force . 
He is fair , but no one could mistake him for a man of the north even by the dim gleam of the lantern standing on the quay . 
Standing by the tiller , he pulls out his watch from under a thick jacket and bends his head over it in the light cast into the boat . 
His pleasant voice commands , in a quiet undertone , Larguez . 
I may well remember that last night spent with the pilots of the Third Company . 
For hours I suppose no word was spoken in that boat . 
The pilots , seated in two rows facing each other , dozed , with their arms folded and their chins resting upon their breasts . 
Keep her in the furrow of the moon , the patron directed me , in a quiet murmur , sitting down ponderously in the stern sheets and reaching for his pipe . 
Without altering the course a hair's breadth we slipped by each other within an oar's length . 
A drawling , sardonic hail came out of her . 
Instantly , as if by magic , our dozing pilots got on their feet in a body . 
The cowled grandfather was very much entertained somewhere within his hood . 
He had not joined in the shouting of jokes , neither had he moved the least bit . 
He had remained quietly in his place against the foot of the mast . 
in the fleet which sailed from Toulon for the conquest of Algeria in the year of grace . 
That sort of button , I believe , went out with the last of the French Bourbons . 
I preserved it from the time of my navy service , he explained , nodding rapidly his frail , vulture like head . 
It was not very likely that he had picked up that relic in the street . 
He looked certainly old enough to have fought at Trafalgar or , at any rate , to have played his little part there as a powder monkey . 
It was at night , he narrated vaguely , without animation , at a spot between Frejus and Antibes , in the open country . 
A big fire had been lit at the side of the cross roads . 
The population from several villages had collected there , old and young down to the very children in arms , because the women had refused to stay at home . 
Tall soldiers wearing high , hairy caps stood in a circle , facing the people silently , and their stern eyes and big mustaches were enough to make everybody keep at a distance . 
His hands were clasped behind his back . 
It appears that this was the Emperor , the ancient commented , with a faint sigh . 
The tale seems an authentic recollection . 
He related it to me many times , using the very same words . 
The grandfather honoured me by a special and somewhat embarrassing predilection . 
He was the oldest member by a long way in that company , and I was , if I may say so , its temporarily adopted baby . 
He had been a pilot longer than any man in the boat could remember thirty forty years . 
He did not seem certain himself , but it could be found out , he suggested , in the archives of the Pilot office . 
He was not in the way . 
They treated him with rough deference . 
One and another would address some insignificant remark to him now and again , but nobody really took any notice of what he had to say . 
He had survived his strength , his usefulness , his very wisdom . 
He wore long , green , worsted stockings pulled up above the knee over his trousers , a sort of woollen nightcap on his hairless cranium , and wooden clogs on his feet . 
Without his hooded cloak he looked like a peasant . 
Half a dozen hands would be extended to help him on board , but afterward he was left pretty much to his own thoughts . 
No one took notice in any way of the chuckling within the shadow of the hood . 
He kept it up for a long time with intense enjoyment . 
Obviously he had preserved intact the innocence of mind which is easily amused . 
But when his hilarity had exhausted itself , he made a professional remark in a self assertive but quavering voice Can't expect much work on a night like this . 
No one took it up . 
It was a mere truism . 
Nothing under canvas could be expected to make a port on such an idle night of dreamy splendour and spiritual stillness . 
I was familiar with the procedure . 
The stout boat emptied of her crowd would nestle her buoyant , capable side against the very rock such is the perfectly smooth amenity of the classic sea when in a gentle mood . 
All this came to pass as I had foreseen in the fullness of my very recent experience . 
But also something not foreseen by me did happen , something which causes me to remember my last outing with the pilots . 
It was on this occasion that my hand touched , for the first time , the side of an English ship . 
She emerged rapidly to her water line and came on steadily , a slim hull with a long streak of smoke slanting away from the rising sun . 
We embarked in a hurry , and headed the boat out for our prey , but we hardly moved three miles an hour . 
How could I the first English ship on whose side I ever laid my hand ! The name I read it letter by letter on the bow was James Westoll . 
Not very romantic , you will say . 
The name of a very considerable , well known , and universally respected North country ship owner , I believe . 
I dare not claim it aloud as my own , then , at any rate , the speech of my children . 
Thus small events grow memorable by the passage of time . 
As to the quality of the address itself I cannot say it was very striking . 
Too short for eloquence and devoid of all charm of tone , it consisted precisely of the three words Look out there ! growled out huskily above my head . 
in a blue woollen shirt and roomy breeches pulled up very high , even to the level of his breastbone , by a pair of braces quite exposed to public view . 
My course of reading , of dreaming , and longing for the sea had not prepared me for a sea brother of that sort . 
Perhaps Mr. Jacobs himself was not yet . 
I fancy that , at most , if he had made his nurse laugh it was about all he had achieved at that early date . 
Therefore , I repeat , other disabilities apart , I could not have been prepared for the sight of that husky old porpoise . 
The object of his concise address was to call my attention to a rope which he incontinently flung down for me to catch . 
I caught it , though it was not really necessary , the ship having no way on her by that time . 
Then everything went on very swiftly . 
Her head swung a little to the west , pointing toward the miniature lighthouse of the Jolliette breakwater , far away there , hardly distinguishable against the land . 
The dinghy danced a squashy , splashy jig in the wash of the wake and , turning in my seat , I followed the James Westoll with my eyes . 
Before she had gone in a quarter of a mile she hoisted her flag , as the harbour regulations prescribe for arriving and departing ships . 
I saw it suddenly flicker and stream out on the flag staff . 
The Red Ensign the symbolic , protecting , warm bit of bunting flung wide upon the seas , and destined for so many years to be the only roof over my head . 
