Preface The stories in the Fairy Books have generally been such as old women in country places tell to their grandchildren . 
Nobody knows how old they are , or who told them first . 
The children of Ham , Shem and Japhet may have listened to them in the Ark , on wet days . 
The changes are only in matters of manners and customs such as wearing clothes or not , meeting lions who talk in the warm countries , or talking bears in the cold countries . 
There are plenty of kings and queens in the fairy tales , just because long ago there were plenty of kings in the country . 
A gentleman who would be a squire now was a kind of king in Scotland in very old times , and the same in other places . 
These old stories , never forgotten , were taken down in writing in different ages , but mostly in this century , in all sorts of languages . 
These ancient stories are the contents of the Fairy books . 
Now The Arabian Nights , some of which , but not nearly all , are given in this volume , are only fairy tales of the East . 
The people of Asia , Arabia , and Persia told them in their own way , not for children , but for grown up people . 
There were no novels then , nor any printed books , of course but there were people whose profession it was to amuse men and women by telling tales . 
They dressed the fairy stories up , and made the characters good Mahommedans , living in Bagdad or India . 
He was put to death by the Caliph in a very cruel way , nobody ever knew why . 
The stories must have been told in their present shape a good long while after the Caliph died , when nobody knew very exactly what had really happened . 
Probably the tales were written down about the time when Edward I. was fighting Robert Bruce . 
But changes were made in them at different times , and a great deal that is very dull and stupid was put in , and plenty of verses . 
Neither the verses nor the dull pieces are given in this book . 
People in France and England knew almost nothing about The Arabian Nights till the reigns of Queen Anne and George I. , when they were translated into French by Monsieur Galland . 
Grown up people were then very fond of fairy tales , and they thought these Arab stories the best that they had ever read . 
and Geni , who seemed to be a kind of ogres , and with Princesses who work magic spells , and with Peris , who are Arab fairies . 
Sindbad had adventures which perhaps came out of the Odyssey of Homer in fact , all the East had contributed its wonders , and sent them to Europe in one parcel . 
Young men once made a noise at Monsieur Galland's windows in the dead of night , and asked him to tell them one of his marvellous tales . 
Nobody talked of anything but dervishes and vizirs , rocs and peris . 
The stories were translated from French into all languages , and only Bishop Atterbury complained that the tales were not likely to be true , and had no moral . 
The bishops was presently banished for being on the side of Prince Charlie's father , and had leisure to repent of being so solemn . 
In this book the stories are shortened here and there , and omissions are made of pieces only suitable for Arabs and old gentlemen . 
The translations are by the writers of the tales in the Fairy Books , and the pictures are by Mr. Ford . 
His subjects loved him , and his neighbors feared him , and when he died he left his kingdom in a more prosperous and powerful condition than any king had done before him . 
So every evening he married a fresh wife and had her strangled the following morning before the grand vizir , whose duty it was to provide these unhappy brides for the Sultan . 
The poor man fulfilled his task with reluctance , but there was no escape , and every day saw a girl married and a wife dead . 
This behaviour caused the greatest horror in the town , where nothing was heard but cries and lamentations . 
The grand vizir himself was the father of two daughters , of whom the elder was called Scheherazade , and the younger Dinarzade . 
Dinarzade had no particular gifts to distinguish her from other girls , but her sister was clever and courageous in the highest degree . 
Will you grant it to me ? I can refuse you nothing , replied he , that is just and reasonable . 
Then listen , said Scheherazade . 
I am determined to stop this barbarous practice of the Sultan's , and to deliver the girls and mothers from the awful fate that hangs over them . 
Have you lost your senses ? cried the grand vizir , starting back in horror . 
If I fail , my death will be a glorious one , and if I succeed I shall have done a great service to my country . 
It is of no use , said the grand vizir , I shall never consent . 
If the Sultan was to order me to plunge a dagger in your heart , I should have to obey . 
What a task for a father ! Ah , if you do not fear death , fear at any rate the anguish you would cause me . 
Once again , my father , said Scheherazade , will you grant me what I ask ? What , are you still so obstinate ? exclaimed the grand vizir . 
The Sultan received this news with the greatest astonishment . 
How have you made up your mind , he asked , to sacrifice your own daughter to me ? Sire , answered the grand vizir , it is her own wish . 
Even the sad fate that awaits her could not hold her back . 
Let there be no mistake , vizir , said the Sultan . 
Remember you will have to take her life yourself . 
If you refuse , I swear that your head shall pay forfeit . 
Sire , returned the vizir . 
Whatever the cost , I will obey you . 
Though a father , I am also your subject . 
So the Sultan told the grand vizir he might bring his daughter as soon as he liked . 
The vizir took back this news to Scheherazade , who received it as if it had been the most pleasant thing in the world . 
Then she went to prepare herself for the marriage , and begged that her sister Dinarzade should be sent for to speak to her . 
When they were alone , Scheherazade addressed her thus My dear sister I want your help in a very important affair . 
My father is going to take me to the palace to celebrate my marriage with the Sultan . 
Then I shall begin , and I hope by this means to deliver the people from the terror that reigns over them . 
Dinarzade replied that she would do with pleasure what her sister wished . 
But seeing her eyes full of tears , he asked what was the matter . 
Sire , replied Scheherazade , I have a sister who loves me as tenderly as I love her . 
Grant me the favour of allowing her to sleep this night in the same room , as it is the last we shall be together . 
Schahriar consented to Scheherazade's petition and Dinarzade was sent for . 
It is the last time that I shall have the pleasure of hearing you . 
Scheherazade did not answer her sister , but turned to the Sultan . 
Will your highness permit me to do as my sister asks ? said she . 
He was obliged from time to time to take journeys to arrange his affairs . 
He arrived without any mishap , and , having finished his business , set out on his return . 
On the fourth day of his journey , the heat of the sun being very great , he turned out of his road to rest under some trees . 
He found at the foot of a large walnut tree a fountain of clear and running water . 
He dismounted , fastened his horse to a branch of the tree , and sat by the fountain , after having taken from his wallet some of his dates and biscuits . 
When he had finished this frugal mean he washed his face and hands in the fountain . 
When he was thus employed he saw an enormous genius , white with rage , coming towards him , with a scimitar in his hand . 
Arise , he cried in a terrible voice , and let me kill you as you have killed my son ! As he uttered these words he gave a frightful yell . 
But , said the merchant , How can I have killed your son ? I do not know him , and I have never even seen him . 
So I shall kill you . 
Ah , sir , forgive me ! cried the merchant . 
I will have no mercy on you , answered the genius . 
But I killed your son quite unintentionally , so I implore you to spare my life . 
The merchant , protesting his innocence , bewailed his wife and children , and tried pitifully to avert his fate . 
The genius , with his raised scimitar , waited till he had finished , bit was not in the least touched . 
Scheherazade , at this point , seeing that it was day , and knowing that the Sultan always rose very early to attend the council , stopped speaking . 
Indeed , sister , said Dinarzade , this is a wonderful story . 
All this time the grand vizir was in a terrible state of anxiety . 
But he was much delighted when he saw the Sultan enter the council chamber without giving the terrible command that he was expecting . 
The next morning , before the day broke , Dinarzade said to her sister , Dear sister , if you are awake I pray you to go on with your story . 
The Sultan did not wait for Scheherazade to ask his leave . 
Finish , said he , the story of the genius and the merchant . 
I am curious to hear the end . 
So Scheherazade went on with the story . 
The Sultana told a story , and the Sultan let her live to finish it . 
When the merchant saw that the genius was determined to cut off his head , he said One word more , I entreat you . 
Grant me a little delay just a short time to go home and bid my wife and children farewell , and to make my will . 
When I have done this I will come back here , and you shall kill me . 
But , said the genius , if I grant you the delay you ask , I am afraid that you will not come back . 
I give you my word of honour , answered the merchant , that I will come back without fail . 
How long do you require ? asked the genius . 
I ask you for a year's grace , replied the merchant . 
I promise you that to morrow twelvemonth , I shall be waiting under these trees to give myself up to you . 
On this the genius left him near the fountain and disappeared . 
The merchant , having recovered from his fright , mounted his horse and went on his road . 
When he arrived home his wife and children received him with the greatest joy . 
But instead of embracing them he began to weep so bitterly that they soon guessed that something terrible was the matter . 
Tell us , I pray you , said his wife , what has happened . 
Alas ! answered her husband , I have only a year to live . 
Then he told them what had passed between him and the genius , and how he had given his word to return at the end of a year to be killed . 
When they heard this sad news they were in despair , and wept much . 
The next day the merchant began to settle his affairs , and first of all to pay his debts . 
He gave presents to his friends , and large alms to the poor . 
He set his slaves at liberty , and provided for his wife and children . 
The year soon passed away , and he was obliged to depart . 
When he tried to say good bye he was quite overcome with grief , and with difficulty tore himself away . 
At length he reached the place where he had first seen the genius , on the very day that he had appointed . 
He dismounted , and sat down at the edge of the fountain , where he awaited the genius in terrible suspense . 
Whilst he was thus waiting an old man leading a hind came towards him . 
The merchant told the old man why he was obliged to come there . 
This is a most marvellous affair . 
I should like to be a witness of your interview with the genius . 
So saying he sat down by the merchant . 
While they were talking another old man came up , followed by two black dogs . 
He greeted them , and asked what they were doing in this place . 
The old man who was leading the hind told him the adventure of the merchant and the genius . 
The second old man had not sooner heard the story than he , too , decided to stay there to see what would happen . 
He sat down by the others , and was talking , when a third old man arrived . 
He asked why the merchant who was with them looked so sad . 
They told him the story , and he also resolved to see what would pass between the genius and the merchant , so waited with the rest . 
They soon saw in the distance a thick smoke , like a cloud of dust . 
The merchant and the three old men began to weep and groan . 
The Story of the First Old Man and of the Hind I am now going to begin my story , so please attend . 
This hind that you see with me is my wife . 
We have no children of our own , therefore I adopted the son of a favorite slave , and determined to make him my heir . 
My wife , however , took a great dislike to both mother and child , which she concealed from me till too late . 
When my adopted son was about ten years old I was obliged to go on a journey . 
Before I went I entrusted to my wife's keeping both the mother and child , and begged her to take care of them during my absence , which lasted a whole year . 
During this time she studied magic in order to carry out her wicked scheme . 
When she had learnt enough she took my son into a distant place and changed him into a calf . 
Then she gave him to my steward , and told him to look after a calf she had bought . 
She also changed the slave into a cow , which she sent to my steward . 
When I returned I inquired after my slave and the child . 
Your slave is dead , she said , and as for your son , I have not seen him for two months , and I do not know where he is . 
I was grieved to hear of my slave's death , but as my son had only disappeared , I thought I should soon find him . 
Eight months , however , passed , and still no tidings of him then the feast of Bairam came . 
To celebrate it I ordered my steward to bring me a very fat cow to sacrifice . 
The cow that he brought was my unfortunate slave . 
I bound her , but just as I was about to kill her she began to low most piteously , and I saw that her eyes were streaming with tears . 
It seemed to me most extraordinary , and , feeling a movement of pity , I ordered the steward to lead her away and bring another . 
My wife , who was present , scoffed at my compassion , which made her malice of no avail . 
What are you doing ? she cried . 
It is the best we have to sacrifice . 
To please her , I tried again , but again the animal's lows and tears disarmed me . 
Take her away , I said to the steward , and kill her I cannot . 
The steward killed her , but on skinning her found that she was nothing but bones , although she appeared so fat . 
Keep her for yourself , I said to the steward , and if you have a fat calf , bring that in her stead . 
In a short time he brought a very fat calf , which , although I did not know it , was my son . 
It tried hard to break its cord and come to me . 
It threw itself at my feet , with its head on the ground , as if it wished to excite my pity , and to beg me not to take away its life . 
I was even more surprised and touched at this action than I had been at the tears of the cow . 
Go , I said to the steward , take back this calf , take great care of it , and bring me another in its place instantly . 
As soon as my wife heard me speak this she at once cried out , What are you doing , husband ? Do not sacrifice any calf but this . 
Wife , I answered , I will not sacrifice this calf , and in spite of all her remonstrances , I remained firm . 
I had another calf killed this one was led away . 
The next day the steward asked to speak to me in private . 
I have come , he said , to tell you some news which I think you will like to hear . 
I have a daughter who knows magic . 
Yesterday , when I was leading back the calf which you refused to sacrifice , I noticed that she smiled , and then directly afterwards began to cry . 
I asked her why she did so . 
Father , she answered , this calf is the son of our master . 
I smile with joy at seeing him still alive , and I weep to think of his mother , who was sacrificed yesterday as a cow . 
These changes have been wrought by our master's wife , who hated the mother and son . 
At these words , of Genius , continued the old man , I leave you to imagine my astonishment . 
I went immediately with the steward to speak with his daughter myself . 
First of all I went to the stable to see my son , and he replied in his dumb way to all my caresses . 
When the steward's daughter came I asked her if she could change my son back to his proper shape . 
Yes , I can , she replied , on two conditions . 
One is that you will give him to me for a husband , and the other is that you will let me punish the woman who changed him into a calf . 
To the first condition , I answered , I agree with all my heart , and I will give you an ample dowry . 
To the second I also agree , I only beg you to spare her life . 
That I will do , she replied I will treat her as she treated your son . 
My son , my dear son , I exclaimed , kissing him in a transport of joy . 
This kind maiden has rescued you from a terrible enchantment , and I am sure that out of gratitude you will marry her . 
He consented joyfully , but before they were married , the young girl changed my wife into a hind , and it is she whom you see before you . 
I wished her to have this form rather than a stranger one , so that we could see her in the family without repugnance . 
Since then my son has become a widower and has gone travelling . 
I am now going in search of him , and not wishing to confide my wife to the care of other people , I am taking her with me . 
Is this not a most marvellous tale ? It is indeed , said the genius , and because of it I grant to you the third part of the punishment of this merchant . 
With this agreement the second old man began in this way . 
Our father died , leaving us each a thousand sequins . 
With this sum we all three took up the same profession , and became merchants . 
A short time after we had opened our shops , my eldest brother , one of these two dogs , resolved to travel in foreign countries for the sake of merchandise . 
With this intention he sold all he had and bought merchandise suitable to the voyages he was about to make . 
He set out , and was away a whole year . 
At the end of this time a beggar came to my shop . 
Good day , I said . 
Good day , he answered is it possible that you do not recognise me ? Then I looked at him closely and saw he was my brother . 
I made him come into my house , and asked him how he had fared in his enterprise . 
Do not question me , he replied , see me , you see all I have . 
It would but renew my trouble to tell of all the misfortunes that have befallen me in a year , and have brought me to this state . 
I shut up my shop , paid him every attention , taking him to the bath , giving him my most beautiful robes . 
I examined my accounts , and found that I had doubled my capital that is , that I now possessed two thousand sequins . 
I gave my brother half , saying Now , brother , you can forget your losses . 
He accepted them with joy , and we lived together as we had before . 
Some time afterwards my second brother wished also to sell his business and travel . 
My eldest brother and I did all we could to dissuade him , but it was of no use . 
He joined a caravan and set out . 
He came back at the end of a year in the same state as his elder brother . 
I took care of him , and as I had a thousand sequins to spare I gave them to him , and he re opened his shop . 
One day , my two brothers came to me to propose that we should make a journey and trade . 
At first I refused to go . 
You travelled , I said , and what did you gain ? But they came to me repeatedly , and after having held out for five years I at last gave way . 
But when they had made their preparation , and they began to buy the merchandise we needed , they found they had spent every piece of the thousand sequins I had given them . 
I did not reproach them . 
I divided my six thousand sequins with them , giving a thousand to each and keeping one for myself , and the other three I buried in a corner of my house . 
We bought merchandise , loaded a vessel with it , and set forth with a favorable wind . 
After two months' sailing we arrived at a seaport , where we disembarked and did a great trade . 
Then we bought the merchandise of the country , and were just going to sail once more , when I was stopped on the shore by a beautiful though poorly dressed woman . 
She came up to me , kissed my hand , and implored me to marry her , and take her on board . 
At first I refused , but she begged so hard and promised to be such a good wife to me , that at last I consented . 
I got her some beautiful dresses , and after having married her , we embarked and set sail . 
During the voyage , I discovered so many good qualities in my wife that I began to lover her more and more . 
But my brothers began to be jealous of my prosperity , and set to work to plot against my life . 
One night when we were sleeping they threw my wife and myself into the sea . 
My wife , however , was a fairy , and so she did not let me drown , but transported me to an island . 
Now I have rewarded you by saving your life . 
But I am very angry with your brothers , and I shall not rest till I have taken their lives . 
I thanked the fairy for all that she had done for me , but I begged her not to kill my brothers . 
I appeased her wrath , and in a moment she transported me from the island where we were to the roof of my house , and she disappeared a moment afterwards . 
I went down , and opened the doors , and dug up the three thousand sequins which I had buried . 
I went to the place where my shop was , opened it , and received from my fellow merchants congratulations on my return . 
When I went home , I saw two black dogs who came to meet me with sorrowful faces . 
I was much astonished , but the fairy who reappeared said to me , Do not be surprised to see these dogs they are your two brothers . 
I have condemned them to remain for ten years in these shapes . 
Then having told me where I could hear news of her , she vanished . 
The ten years are nearly passed , and I am on the road to find her . 
As in passing I met this merchant and the old man with the hind , I stayed with them . 
So he told his story to the genius , but I cannot tell you what it was , as I do not know . 
He ought to thank all three of you for having interested yourselves in his favour . 
But for you , he would be here no longer . 
So saying , he disappeared , to the great joy of the company . 
The merchant did not fail to thank his friends , and then each went on his way . 
The merchant returned to his wife and children , and passed the rest of his days happily with them . 
But , sire , added Scheherazade , however beautiful are the stories I have just told you , they cannot compare with the story of the Fisherman . 
The Story of the Fisherman Sire , there was once upon a time a fisherman so old and so poor that he could scarcely manage to support his wife and three children . 
He went every day to fish very early , and each day he made a rule not to throw his nets more than four times . 
He started out one morning by moonlight and came to the sea shore . 
He undressed and threw his nets , and as he was drawing them towards the bank he felt a great weight . 
He though he had caught a large fish , and he felt very pleased . 
But a moment afterwards , seeing that instead of a fish he only had in his nets the carcase of an ass , he was much disappointed . 
Vexed with having such a bad haul , when he had mended his nets , which the carcase of the ass had broken in several places , he threw them a second time . 
In drawing them in he again felt a great weight , so that he thought they were full of fish . 
But he only found a large basket full of rubbish . 
But he only drew in stones , shells , and mud . 
He was almost in despair . 
Then he threw his nets for the fourth time . 
When he thought he had a fish he drew them in with a great deal of trouble . 
I will sell it to the founder , he said with the money I shall get for it I shall buy a measure of wheat . 
He examined the jar on all sides he shook it to see if it would rattle . 
But he heard nothing , and so , judging from the impression of the seal and the lid , he thought there must be something precious inside . 
To find out , he took his knife , and with a little trouble he opened it . 
He turned it upside down , but nothing came out , which surprised him very much . 
He set it in front of him , and whilst he was looking at it attentively , such a thick smoke came out that he had to step back a pace or two . 
This smoke rose up to the clouds , and stretching over the sea and the shore , formed a thick mist , which caused the fisherman much astonishment . 
When all the smoke was out of the jar it gathered itself together , and became a thick mass in which appeared a genius , twice as large as the largest giant . 
When he saw such a terrible looking monster , the fisherman would like to have run away , but he trembled so with fright that he could not move a step . 
Great king of the genii , cried the monster , I will never again disobey you ! At these words the fisherman took courage . 
What is this you are saying , great genius ? Tell me your history and how you came to be shut up in that vase . 
At this , the genius looked at the fisherman haughtily . 
Speak to me more civilly , he said , before I kill you . 
Alas ! why should you kill me ? cried the fisherman . 
But what have I done to you ? asked the fisherman . 
I cannot treat you in any other way , said the genius , and if you would know why , listen to my story . 
I rebelled against the king of the genii . 
To punish me , he shut me up in this vase of copper , and he put on the leaden cover his seal , which is enchantment enough to prevent my coming out . 
Then he had the vase thrown into the sea . 
During the first period of my captivity I vowed that if anyone should free me before a hundred years were passed , I would make him rich even after his death . 
But that century passed , and no one freed me . 
In the second century I vowed that I would give all the treasures in the world to my deliverer but he never came . 
So you see , as you have freed me to day , choose in what way you will die . 
The fisherman was very unhappy . 
What an unlucky man I am to have freed you ! I implore you to spare my life . 
I have told you , said the genius , that it is impossible . 
Choose quickly you are wasting time . 
The fisherman began to devise a plot . 
I really cannot believe it , said the fisherman . 
That vase could not contain one of your feet even , and how could your whole body go in ? I cannot believe it unless I see you do the thing . 
At these words the genius did all he could to get out , but he could not , because of the enchantment of the lid . 
Then he tried to get out by cunning . 
If you will take off the cover , he said , I will repay you . 
No , answered the fisherman , if I trust myself to you I am afraid you will treat me as a certain Greek king treated the physician Douban . 
Listen , and I will tell you . 
The Story of the Greek King and the Physician Douban In the country of Zouman , in Persia , there lived a Greek king . 
This king was a leper , and all his doctors had been unable to cure him , when a very clever physician came to his court . 
He was very learned in all languages , and knew a great deal about herbs and medicines . 
As soon as he was told of the king's illness he put on his best robe and presented himself before the king . 
The king listened to this proposal . 
If you are clever enough to do this , he said , I promise to make you and your descendants rich for ever . 
The physician went to his house and made a polo club , the handle of which he hollowed out , and put in it the drug he wished to use . 
Then he made a ball , and with these things he went the next day to the king . 
He told him that he wished him to play at polo . 
Accordingly the king mounted his horse and went into the place where he played . 
When the remedy that is in the handle of the club is warmed by your hand it will penetrate throughout your body . 
The you must return to your palace , bathe , and go to sleep , and when you awake to morrow morning you will be cured . 
The king took the club and urged his horse after the ball which he had thrown . 
He struck it , and then it was hit back by the courtiers who were playing with him . 
When he felt very hot he stopped playing , and went back to the palace , went into the bath , and did all that the physician had said . 
The next day when he arose he found , to his great joy and astonishment , that he was completely cured . 
When he entered his audience chamber all his courtiers , who were eager to see if the wonderful cure had been effected , were overwhelmed with joy . 
The physician Douban entered the hall and bowed low to the ground . 
The king , seeing him , called him , made him sit by his side , and showed him every mark of honour . 
That evening he gave him a long and rich robe of state , and presented him with two thousand sequins . 
The following day he continued to load him with favours . 
Now the king had a grand vizir who was avaricious , and envious , and a very bad man . 
He grew extremely jealous of the physician , and determined to bring about his ruin . 
In order to do this he asked to speak in private with the king , saying that he had a most important communication to make . 
What is it ? asked the king . 
I am sure , said the king , that this man is the most faithful and virtuous of men . 
If he wished to take my life , why did he cure me ? Cease to speak against him . 
I see what it is , you are jealous of him but do not think that I can be turned against him . 
I remember well what a vizir said to King Sindbad , his master , to prevent him from putting the prince , his son , to death . 
This vizir , he replied , told King Sindbad that one ought not believe everything that a mother in law says , and told him this story . 
The Story of the Husband and the Parrot A good man had a beautiful wife , whom he loved passionately , and never left if possible . 
One day , when he was obliged by important business to go away from her , he went to a place where all kinds of birds are sold and bought a parrot . 
This parrot not only spoke well , but it had the gift of telling all that had been done before it . 
He brought it home in a cage , and asked his wife to put it in her room , and take great care of it while he was away . 
On his return he asked the parrot what had happened during his absence , and the parrot told him some things which made him scold his wife . 
She thought that one of her slaves must have been telling tales of her , but they told her it was the parrot , and she resolved to revenge herself on him . 
The slaves did this for part of the night , and did it very well . 
The next day when the husband came back he asked the parrot what he had seen . 
The bird replied , My good master , the lightning , thunder and rain disturbed me so much all night long , that I cannot tell you what I have suffered . 
Nevertheless he was sorry afterwards , for he found that the parrot had spoken the truth . 
But the vizir was determined . 
Sire , he replied , the death of the parrot was nothing . 
But when it is a question of the life of a king it is better to sacrifice the innocent than save the guilty . 
It is no uncertain thing , however . 
The physician , Douban , wishes to assassinate you . 
My zeal prompts me to disclose this to your Majesty . 
If I am wrong , I deserve to be punished as a vizir was once punished . 
The Story of the Vizir Who Was Punished There was once upon a time a king who had a son who was very fond of hunting . 
He often allowed him to indulge in this pastime , but he had ordered his grand vizir always to go with him , and never to lose sight of him . 
One day the huntsman roused a stag , and the prince , thinking that the vizir was behind , gave chase , and rode so hard that he found himself alone . 
He stopped , and having lost sight of it , he turned to rejoin the vizir , who had not been careful enough to follow him . 
But he lost his way . 
Whilst he was trying to find it , he saw on the side of the road a beautiful lady who was crying bitterly . 
He drew his horse's rein , and asked her who she was and what she was doing in this place , and if she needed help . 
I am the daughter of an Indian king , she answered , and whilst riding in the country I fell asleep and tumbled off . 
My horse has run away , and I do not know what has become of him . 
The young prince had pity on her , and offered to take her behind him , which he did . 
As they passed by a ruined building the lady dismounted and went in . 
The prince also dismounted and followed her . 
To his great surprise , he heard her saying to some one inside , Rejoice my children I am bringing you a nice fat youth . 
He was terrified , and threw himself on his horse . 
The pretended princess appeared at this moment , and seeing that she had lost her prey , she said to him , Do not be afraid . 
What do you want ? I am lost , he answered , and I am looking for the road . 
Keep straight on , said the ogress , and you will find it . 
The prince could hardly believe his ears , and rode off as hard as he could . 
He found his way , and arrived safe and sound at his father's house , where he told him of the danger he had run because of the grand vizir's carelessness . 
The king was very angry , and had him strangled immediately . 
Sire , went on the vizir to the Greek king , to return to the physician , Douban . 
If you do not take care , you will repent of having trusted him . 
Well , vizir , he said , you are right . 
Perhaps he did come to take my life . 
He might do it by the mere smell of one of his drugs . 
I must see what can be done . 
I really think , replied the king , that will be the best way . 
He then ordered one of his ministers to fetch the physician , who came at once . 
I have had you sent for , said the king , in order to free myself from you by taking your life . 
The physician was beyond measure astonished when he heard he was to die . 
What crimes have I committed , your majesty ? I have learnt , replied the king , that you are a spy , and intend to kill me . 
But I will be first , and kill you . 
Strike , he added to an executioner who was by , and rid me of this assassin . 
At this cruel order the physician threw himself on his knees . 
Spare my life , he cried , and yours will be spared . 
The fisherman stopped here to say to the genius You see what passed between the Greek king and the physician has just passed between us two . 
The Greek king , he went on , had no mercy on him , and the executioner bound his eyes . 
All those present begged for his life , but in vain . 
There is one which I should like to present to your majesty . 
It is very precious , and ought to be kept carefully in your treasury . 
The king , eager to see such a wonderful thing , put off his execution to the next day , and sent him under a strong guard to his house . 
There the physician put his affairs in order , and the next day there was a great crowd assembled in the hall to see his death , and the doings after it . 
The physician went up to the foot of the throne with a large book in his hand . 
Then open the book , and my head will answer your questions . 
But , sire , I implore your mercy , for I am innocent . 
Your prayers are useless , and if it were only to hear your head speak when you are dead , you should die . 
So saying , he took the book from the physician's hands , and ordered the executioner to do his duty . 
The head was so cleverly cut off that it fell into the basin , and directly the blood ceased to flow . 
Then , to the great astonishment of the king , the eyes opened , and the head said , Your majesty , open the book . 
The king did so , and finding that the first leaf stuck against the second , he put his finger in his mouth , to turn it more easily . 
He did the same thing till he reached the sixth page , and not seeing any writing on it , Physician , he said , there is no writing . 
Turn over a few more pages , answered the head . 
The king went on turning , still putting his finger in his mouth , till the poison in which each page was dipped took effect . 
His sight failed him , and he fell at the foot of his throne . 
Scarcely had it uttered these words than the king died , and the head lost also the little life that had remained in it . 
That is the end of the story of the Greek king , and now let us return to the fisherman and the genius . 
If the Greek king , said the fisherman , had spared the physician , he would not have thus died . 
The same thing applies to you . 
Now I am going to throw you into the sea . 
My friend , said the genius , do not do such a cruel thing . 
Do not treat me as Imma treated Ateca . 
What did Imma do to Ateca ? asked the fisherman . 
Do you think I can tell you while I am shut up in here ? replied the genius . 
Let me out , and I will make you rich . 
The hope of being no longer poor made the fisherman give way . 
If you will give me your promise to do this , I will open the lid . 
I do not think you will dare to break your word . 
The genius promised , and the fisherman lifted the lid . 
He came out at once in smoke , and then , having resumed his proper form , the first thing he did was to kick the vase into the sea . 
He began to walk in front of the fisherman , who followed him with some misgivings . 
They passed in front of the town , and went up a mountain and then down into a great plain , where there was a large lake lying between four hills . 
When they reached the lake the genius said to the fisherman , Throw your nets and catch fish . 
The fisherman did as he was told , hoping for a good catch , as he saw plenty of fish . 
What was his astonishment at seeing that there were four quite different kinds , some white , some red , some blue , and some yellow . 
He caught four , one of each colour . 
As he had never seen any like them he admired them very much , and he was very pleased to think how much money he would get for them . 
Take these fish and carry them to the Sultan , who will give you more money for them than you have ever had in your life . 
You can come every day to fish in this lake , but be careful not to throw your nets more than once every day , otherwise some harm will happen to you . 
If you follow my advice carefully you will find it good . 
Saying these words , he struck his foot against the ground , which opened , and when he had disappeared , it closed immediately . 
The fisherman resolved to obey the genius exactly , so he did not cast his nets a second time , but walked into the town to sell his fish at the palace . 
When the Sultan saw the fish he was much astonished . 
I think they must be as good as they are beautiful . 
The vizir took them himself to the cook , saying , Here are four fish that have been brought to the Sultan . 
He wants you to cook them . 
Then he went back to the Sultan , who told him to give the fisherman four hundred gold pieces . 
The fisherman , who had never before possessed such a large sum of money at once , could hardly believe his good fortune . 
He at once relieved the needs of his family , and made good use of it . 
But now we must return to the kitchen , which we shall find in great confusion . 
The cook , when she had cleaned the fish , put them in a pan with some oil to fry them . 
When she thought them cooked enough on one side she turned them on the other . 
But scarcely had she done so when the walls of the kitchen opened , and there came out a young and beautiful damsel . 
She went up to the pan , to the great astonishment of the cook , who stood motionless at the sight of her . 
If you reckon , we reckon . 
If you pay your debts , we pay ours . 
If you fly , we conquer , and we are content . 
When they had spoken the girl upset the pan , and entered the opening in the wall , which at once closed , and appeared the same as before . 
She told him all that had happened , and he was much surprised . 
In the night he went to the lake , cast his nets , and on drawing them in found four fish , which were like the others , each of a different colour . 
He went back at once and carried them to the grand vizir as he had promised . 
He then took them to the kitchen and shut himself up with the cook , who began to cook them as she had done the four others on the previous day . 
The grand vizir was filled with astonishment . 
I shall tell the Sultan all that has happened , said he . 
The Sultan was very much astounded , and wished to see this marvel for himself . 
So he sent for the fisherman , and asked him to procure four more fish . 
The fisherman asked for three days , which were granted , and he then cast his nets in the lake , and again caught four different coloured fish . 
The sultan was delighted to see he had got them , and gave him again four hundred gold pieces . 
As soon as the Sultan had the fish he had them carried to his room with all that was needed to cook them . 
Then he shut himself up with the grand vizir , who began to prepare them and cook them . 
When they were done on one side he turned them over on the other . 
Then the wall of the room opened , but instead of the maiden a black slave came out . 
If you reckon , we reckon . 
If you pay your debts , we pay ours . 
If you fly , we conquer , and are content . 
The black slave overturned the pan in the middle of the room , and the fish were turned to cinders . 
Then he stepped proudly back into the wall , which closed round him . 
After having seen this , said the Sultan , I cannot rest . 
These fish signify some mystery I must clear up . 
He sent for the fisherman . 
Fisherman , he said , the fish you have brought us have caused me some anxiety . 
Where did you get them from ? Sire , he answered , I got them from a lake which lies in the middle of four hills beyond yonder mountains . 
Do you know this lake ? asked the Sultan of the grand vizir . 
No though I have hunted many times round that mountain , I have never heard of it , said the vizir . 
As the fisherman said it was only three hours' journey away , the sultan ordered his whole court to mount and ride thither , and the fisherman led them . 
They climbed the mountain , and then , on the other side , saw the lake as the fisherman had described . 
The water was so clear that they could see the four kinds of fish swimming about in it . 
They looked at them for some time , and then the Sultan ordered them to make a camp by the edge of the water . 
When night came the Sultan called his vizir , and said to him , I have resolved to clear up this mystery . 
I am going out alone , and do you stay here in my tent , and when my ministers come to morrow , say I am not well , and cannot see them . 
Do this each day till I return . 
The grand vizir tried to persuade the Sultan not to go , but in vain . 
The Sultan took off his state robe and put on his sword , and when he saw all was quiet in the camp he set forth alone . 
He climbed one of the hills , and then crossed the great plain , till , just as the sun rose , he beheld far in front of him a large building . 
When he came near to it he saw it was a splendid palace of beautiful black polished marble , covered with steel as smooth as a mirror . 
He went to the gate , which stood half open , and went in , as nobody came when he knocked . 
He passed through a magnificent courtyard and still saw no one , though he called aloud several times . 
Then he found himself in a splendid room , with a fountain supported by golden lions . 
The water out of the lions' mouths turned into diamonds and pearls , and the leaping water almost touched a most beautifully painted dome . 
The palace was surrounded on three sides by magnificent gardens , little lakes , and woods . 
Birds sang in the trees , which were netted over to keep them always there . 
His face was very sad . 
The sultan approached him and bowed to him . 
The young man bent his head very low , but did not rise . 
Sire , he said to the Sultan , I cannot rise and do you the reverence that I am sure should be paid to your rank . 
The Sultan was horrified , and begged the young man to tell him his story . 
Willingly I will tell you my sad history , said the young man . 
My story will tell you how these changes came about . 
My father died when he was sixty six , and I succeeded him . 
I married my cousin , whom I loved tenderly , and I thought she loved me too . 
At last I begged her to cease grieving for him , for although he could not speak or move , by her enchantments she just kept him alive . 
She turned upon me in a rage , and said over me some magic words , and I instantly became as you see me now , half man and half marble . 
Then this wicked enchantress changed the capital , which was a very populous and flourishing city , into the lake and desert plain you saw . 
The fish of four colours which are in it are the different races who lived in the town the four hills are the four islands which give the name to my kingdom . 
All this the enchantress told me to add to my troubles . 
And this is not all . 
Every day she comes and beats me with a whip of buffalo hide . 
When the young king had finished his sad story he burst once more into tears , and the Sultan was much moved . 
Unfortunate king , said the Sultan , I will do what I can to avenge you . 
So he consulted with the young king over the best way to bring this about , and they agreed their plan should be put in effect the next day . 
The Sultan then rested , and the young king gave himself up to happy hopes of release . 
The next day the Sultan arose , and then went to the palace in the garden where the black slave was . 
He drew his sword and destroyed the little life that remained in him , and then threw the body down a well . 
He then lay down on the couch where the slave had been , and waited for the enchantress . 
She went first to the young king , whom she beat with a hundred blows . 
Then she came to the room where she thought her wounded slave was , but where the Sultan really lay . 
She came near his couch and said , Are you better to day , my dear slave ? Speak but one word to me . 
Do you wish him to regain his proper shape ? Yes , said the Sultan hasten to set him at liberty , so that I may no longer hear his cries . 
The queen at once went out and took a cup of water , and said over it some words that made it boil as if it were on the fire . 
Then she threw it over the prince , who at once regained his own form . 
He was filled with joy , but the enchantress said , Hasten away from this place and never come back , lest I kill you . 
So he hid himself to see the end of the Sultan's plan . 
The enchantress went back to the Palace of Tears and said , Now I have done what you wished . 
What you have done , said the Sultan , is not enough to cure me . 
Every day at midnight all the people whom you have changed into fish lift their heads out of the lake and cry for vengeance . 
Go quickly , and give them their proper shape . 
The enchantress hurried away and said some words over the lake . 
The fish then became men , women , and children , and the houses and shops were once more filled . 
The Sultan's suite , who had encamped by the lake , were not a little astonished to see themselves in the middle of a large and beautiful town . 
As soon as she had disenchanted it the queen went back to the palace . 
Are you quite well now ? she said . 
Come near , said the Sultan . 
Then he sprang up , and with one blow of his sword he cut her in two . 
Then he went and found the prince . 
Rejoice , he said , your cruel enemy is dead . 
The prince thanked him again and again . 
And now , said the Sultan . 
I will go back to my capital , which I am glad to find is so near yours . 
So near mine ! said the King of the Black Isles . 
Do you know it is a whole year's journey from here ? You came here in a few hours because it was enchanted . 
But I will accompany you on your journey . 
It will give me much pleasure if you will escort me , said the Sultan , and as I have no children , I will make you my heir . 
The Sultan and the prince set out together , the Sultan laden with rich presents from the King of the Black Isles . 
Then he gave each man presents in proportion to his rank . 
It was opened by an old man with a long white beard , to whom the lady held out money without speaking . 
The old man , who seemed to understand what she wanted , vanished into the house , and returned bringing a large jar of wine , which the porter placed in his basket . 
Then the lady signed to him to follow , and they went their way . 
When they were both inside the door was fastened , and they all three entered a large court , surrounded by an open work gallery . 
At one end of the court was a platform , and on the platform stood an amber throne supported by four ebony columns , garnished with pearls and diamonds . 
In the middle of the court stood a marble basin filled with water from the mouth of a golden lion . 
By the respect shown to her by the others , he judged that she must be the eldest , and in this he was right . 
This lady's name was Zobeida , the porteress was Sadie , and the housekeeper was Amina . 
But instead of taking up his basket and going away , the man still lingered , till Zobeida inquired what he was waiting for , and if he expected more money . 
Oh , madam , returned he , you have already given me too much , and I fear I may have been guilty of rudeness in not taking my departure at once . 
But , if you will pardon my saying so , I was lost in astonishment at seeing such beautiful ladies by themselves . 
A company of women without men is , however , as dull as a company of men without women . 
And after telling some stories to prove his point , he ended by entreating them to let him stay and make a fourth at their dinner . 
The ladies were rather amused at the man's assurances and after some discussion it was agreed that he should be allowed to stay , as his society might prove entertaining . 
Then they all sat down to table , which had been covered by Amina with the dishes she had bought . 
After the first few mouthfuls Amina poured some wine into a golden cup . 
She first drank herself , according to the Arab custom , and then filled it for her sisters . 
When it came to the porter's turn he kissed Amina's hand , and sang a song , which he composed at the moment in praise of the wine . 
The three ladies were pleased with the song , and then sang themselves , so that the repast was a merry one , and lasted much longer than usual . 
At length , seeing that the sun was about to set , Sadia said to the porter , Rise and go it is now time for us to separate . 
Let me remain here till morning , and when I have recovered my senses I will go when you like . 
Let him stay , said Amina , who had before proved herself his friend . 
It is only just , as he has given us so much amusement . 
If you wish it , my sister , replied Zobeida but if he does , I must make a new condition . 
Porter , she continued , turning to him , if you remain , you must promise to ask no questions about anything you may see . 
If you do , you may perhaps hear what you don't like . 
This being settled , Amina brought in supper , and lit up the hall with a number of sweet smelling tapers . 
They then sat down again at the table , and began with fresh appetites to eat , drink , sing , and recite verses . 
In fact , they were all enjoying themselves mightily when they heard a knock at the outer door , which Sadie rose to open . 
They seem to have pleasant manners , she added , but you have no idea how funny they look . 
I am sure we should find their company diverting . 
Zobeida and Amina made some difficulty about admitting the new comers , and Sadie knew the reason of their hesitation . 
But she urged the matter so strongly that Zobeida was at last forced to consent . 
For on the door was written in letters of gold , Whoso meddles in affairs that are no business of his , will hear truths that will not please him . 
The three Calenders bowed low on entering , and thanked the ladies for their kindness and hospitality . 
This , said one of them , is apparently one of our Arab brothers , who has rebelled against our ruler . 
The porter , although half asleep from the wine he had drunk , heard the words , and without moving cried angrily to the Calender , Sit down and mind your own business . 
Did you not read the inscription over the door ? Everybody is not obliged to live in the same way . 
When the Calenders had satisfied their hunger , they offered to play to their hostesses , if there were any instruments in the house . 
The ladies were delighted at the idea , and Sadie went to see what she could find , returning in a few moments laden with two different kinds of flutes and a tambourine . 
Each Calender took the one he preferred , and began to play a well known air , while the ladies sang the words of the song . 
These words were the gayest and liveliest possible , and every now and then the singers had to stop to indulge the laughter which almost choked them . 
In the midst of all their noise , a knock was heard at the door . 
If you will grant us this favour , we will , with your permission , do all in our power to help you spend the time pleasantly . 
They entered and bowed politely to the ladies and their guests . 
Madam , returned the vizir , you shall be obeyed . 
We have quite enough to please and interest us without troubling ourselves about that with which we have no concern . 
Then they all sat down , and drank to the health of the new comers . 
While the vizir , Giafar , was talking to the ladies the Caliph was occupied in wondering who they could be , and why the three Calenders had each lost his right eye . 
After some time the Calenders got up and performed some curious dances , which delighted the rest of the company . 
Amina understood her sister's meaning , and collecting the dishes , glasses , and musical instruments , she carried them away , while Sadie swept the hall and put everything in order . 
Having done this she begged the Calenders to sit on a sofa on one side of the room , and the Caliph and his friends to place themselves opposite . 
As to the porter , she requested him to come and help her and her sister . 
Shortly after Amina entered carrying a seat , which she put down in the middle of the empty space . 
She next went over to the door of a closet and signed to the porter to follow her . 
He did so , and soon reappeared leading two black dogs by a chain , which he brought into the centre of the hall . 
Zobeida then got up from her seat between the Calenders and the Caliph and walked slowly across to where the porter stood with the dogs . 
The porter did as he was bid , but as he led the dog to Zobeida it uttered piercing howls , and gazed up at her with looks of entreaty . 
But Zobeida took no notice , and whipped the dog till she was out of breath . 
She then took the chain from the porter , and , raising the dog on its hind legs , they looked into each other's eyes sorrowfully till tears began to fall from both . 
The same ceremony was gone through with the second dog , and all the while the whole company looked on with astonishment . 
The Caliph in particular could hardly contain himself , and made signs to the vizir to ask what it all meant . 
But the vizir pretended not to see , and turned his head away . 
At these words Amina fetched a lute from a case of yellow satin and gave it to Sadie , who sang several songs to its accompaniment . 
When she was tired she said to Amina , My sister , I can do no more come , I pray you , and take my place . 
To the amazement of all present , her neck , instead of being as smooth and white as her face , was a mass of scars . 
The Calenders and the Caliph looked at each other , and whispered together , unheard by Zobeida and Sadie , who were tending their fainting sister . 
What does it all mean ? asked the Caliph . 
We know no more than you , said the Calender to whom he had spoken . 
What ! You do not belong to the house ? My lord , answered all the Calenders together , we came here for the first time an hour before you . 
They then turned to the porter to see if he could explain the mystery , but the porter was no wiser than they were themselves . 
At length the Caliph could contain his curiosity no longer , and declared that he would compel the ladies to tell them the meaning of their strange conduct . 
They have requested me , Madam , to be their mouthpiece . 
The seven culprits all thought their last hour had come , and the Caliph repented bitterly that he had not taken the vizir's advice . 
He ended by imploring Zobeida not to confound the innocent with the guilty and to spare his life . 
In spite of her anger , there was something so comic in the groans of the porter that Zobeida could not refrain from laughing . 
But putting him aside she addressed the others a second time , saying , Answer me who are you ? Unless you tell me truly you have not another moment to live . 
I can hardly think you are men of any position , whatever country you belong to . 
If you were , you would have had more consideration for us . 
So he whispered hastily to the vizir , who was next to him , to reveal their secret . 
Meanwhile Zobeida had turned to the three Calenders and inquired if , as they were all blind , they were brothers . 
No , madam , replied one , we are no blood relations at all , only brothers by our mode of life . 
After that I shaved my head and eyebrows and put on the dress in which you see me now . 
Zobeida put the same question to the other two Calenders , and received the same answer . 
At these words Zobeida's anger cooled down , and she turned to her slaves and said , You can give them a little more liberty , but do not leave the hall . 
Your sister found me this morning in the place where I always stand waiting to be hired . 
He looked anxiously to Zobeida , who nodded her head and said , You can go and take care we never meet again . 
Oh , madam , cried the porter , let me stay yet a little while . 
Then one of the Calenders , addressing himself to Zobeida as the principal lady , began his story . 
My father's only brother reigned over the neighbouring country , and had two children , a daughter and a son , who were of the same age as myself . 
As I grew up , and was allowed more liberty , I went every year to pay a visit to my uncle's court , and usually stayed there about two months . 
In this way my cousin and I became very intimate , and were much attached to each other . 
The very last time I saw him he seemed more delighted to see me than ever , and gave a great feast in my honour . 
It is now completed , and ready to be lived in . 
I should like to show it to you , but you must first swear two things to be faithful to me , and to keep my secret . 
Of course I did not dream of refusing him anything he asked , and gave the promise without the least hesitation . 
We all three sat down to table and amused ourselves with talking of all sorts of indifferent things , and with drinking each other's health . 
Go in , both of you , and wait till I come . 
I shall not be long . 
We had barely reached it when he joined us himself , carrying a small vessel of water , a pickaxe , and a little bag containing plaster . 
With the pickaxe he at once began to destroy the empty sepulchre in the middle of the tomb . 
One by one he took the stones and piled them up in a corner . 
When he had knocked down the whole sepulchre he proceeded to dig at the earth , and beneath where the sepulchre had been I saw a trap door . 
The lady did not answer , but silently descended the staircase , the prince following her . 
At the top , however , he looked at me . 
My cousin , he exclaimed , I do not know how to thank you for your kindness . 
What do you mean ? I cried . 
No matter , he replied , go back by the path that you came . 
He would say no more , and , greatly puzzled , I returned to my room in the palace and went to bed . 
When I woke , and considered my adventure , I thought that I must have been dreaming , and sent a servant to ask if the prince was dressed and could see me . 
I longed to tell them what had become of the prince , about whose fate they felt the most dreadful anxiety , but the oath I had sworn kept me silent . 
On my arrival at my father's capital , I was astonished to find a large detachment of guards drawn up before the gate of the palace they surrounded me directly I entered . 
Further , that by his orders I was placed under arrest . 
Now this rebel vizir had hated me from my boy hood , because once , when shooting at a bird with a bow , I had shot out his eye by accident . 
Of course I not only sent a servant at once to offer him my regrets and apologies , but I made them in person . 
It was all of no use . 
He cherished an undying hatred towards me , and lost no occasion of showing it . 
Having once got me in his power I felt he could show no mercy , and I was right . 
Mad with triumph and fury he came to me in my prison and tore out my right eye . 
That is how I lost it . 
My persecutor , however , did not stop here . 
But their hearts were not so hard as they seemed , and my tears and prayers made them waver . 
Forsake the kingdom instantly , said the executioner at last , and take care never to come back , for you will not only lose your head , but make us lose ours . 
I thanked him gratefully , and tried to console myself for the loss of my eye by thinking of the other misfortunes I had escaped . 
I therefore lost no time in telling my uncle everything I knew , and I observed that even before I had ended his sorrow appeared to be lightened a little . 
My dear nephew , he said , your story gives me some hope . 
I was aware that my son was building a tomb , and I think I can find the spot . 
But as he wished to keep the matter secret , let us go alone and seek the place ourselves . 
He then bade me disguise myself , and we both slipped out of a garden door which opened on to the cemetery . 
It did not take long for us to arrive at the scene of the prince's disappearance , or to discover the tomb I had sought so vainly before . 
My uncle went first , and I followed him . 
When we reached the bottom of the stairs we stepped into a sort of ante room , filled with such a dense smoke that it was hardly possible to see anything . 
However , we passed through the smoke into a large chamber , which at first seemed quite empty . 
This horrible sight turned me faint , but , to my surprise , my uncle did not show so much surprise as anger . 
I knew , he said , that my son was tenderly attached to this lady , whom it was impossible he should ever marry . 
But , as he spoke , his anger melted into tears , and again I wept with him . 
When he recovered himself he drew me to him . 
Then he turned and went up the stairs . 
At the same time a thick cloud of dust on the horizon told of the approach of a great army . 
My heart sank when I perceived that the commander was the vizir who had dethroned my father , and was come to seize the kingdom of my uncle . 
The capital was utterly unprepared to stand a siege , and seeing that resistance was useless , at once opened its gates . 
Persecuted by ill fortune , and stricken with grief , there seemed to be only one means of safety left to me . 
I shaved my beard and my eyebrows , and put on the dress of a calender , in which it was easy for me to travel without being known . 
I avoided the towns till I reached the kingdom of the famous and powerful Caliph , Haroun al Raschid , when I had no further reason to fear my enemies . 
After a journey which lasted some months I arrived at length at the gates of this city . 
It was sunset , and I paused for a little to look about me , and to decide which way to turn my steps . 
I was still debating on this subject when I was joined by this other calender , who stopped to greet me . 
You , like me , appear to be a stranger , I said . 
He replied that I was right , and before he could say more the third calender came up . 
By this time it had grown late , and we did not know where to spend the night . 
This , madam , is my story . 
I am satisfied , replied Zobeida you can go when you like . 
I was scarcely more than a baby , when the king my father , finding me unusually quick and clever for my age , turned his thoughts to my education . 
I also learnt history , and was instructed in poetry , versification , geography , chronology , and in all the outdoor exercises in which every prince should excel . 
However , as was my duty , I took with me ten camels , laden with rich presents for the Sultan . 
The robbers , however , only laughed , and declared that was none of their business , and , without more words , attacked us brutally . 
I managed to jump off without any injury , and looked about to see if I was pursued . 
But for the moment I was safe , for , as I imagined , the robbers were all engaged in quarrelling over their booty . 
I found myself in a country that was quite new to me , and dared not return to the main road lest I should again fall into the hands of the robbers . 
My delight at the prospect of mixing once more with human beings was somewhat damped at the thought of the miserable object I must seem . 
My face and hands had been burned nearly black my clothes were all in rags , and my shoes were in such a state that I had been forced to abandon them altogether . 
I entered the town , and stopped at a tailor s shop to inquire where I was . 
The man saw I was better than my condition , and begged me to sit down , and in return I told him my whole story . 
The tailor listened with attention , but his reply , instead of giving me consolation , only increased my trouble . 
I replied that I had been educated as a grammarian and a poet , but that my great gift was writing . 
All that is of no use here , said the tailor . 
Take my advice , put on a short coat , and as you seem hardy and strong , go into the woods and cut firewood , which you will sell in the streets . 
By this means you will earn your living , and be able to wait till better times come . 
The hatchet and the cord shall be my present . 
This counsel was very distasteful to me , but I thought I could not do otherwise than adopt it . 
So the next morning I set out with a company of poor wood cutters , to whom the tailor had introduced me . 
I was hacking at the root of a tree , when I beheld an iron ring fastened to a trapdoor of the same metal . 
Down this gallery a lady came to meet me , of such beauty that I forgot everything else , and thought only of her . 
To save her all the trouble possible , I hastened towards her , and bowed low . 
Who are you ? Who are you ? she said . 
A man or a genius ? A man , madam , I replied I have nothing to do with genii . 
By what accident do you come here ? she asked again with a sigh . 
I have been in this place now for five and twenty years , and you are the first man who has visited me . 
Alas , prince , she said , with a deeper sigh than before , you have guessed rightly in supposing me an unwilling prisoner in this gorgeous place . 
I am the daughter of the king of the Ebony Isle , of whose fame you surely must have heard . 
It wants still five days to his next visit , and I hope that during that time you will do me the honour to be my guest . 
Then a feast of the most delicate dishes was served in a room hung with embroidered Indian fabrics . 
He is very jealous , as you know , and will not suffer a man to come near me . 
Princess , I replied , I see it is only fear of the genius that makes you act like this . 
The princess , who realized the consequences of such audacity , entreated me not to touch the talisman . 
If you do , it will be the ruin of both of us , said she I know genii much better than you . 
But the wine I had drunk had confused my brain I gave one kick to the talisman , and it fell into a thousand pieces . 
Hardly had my foot touched the talisman when the air became as dark as night , a fearful noise was heard , and the palace shook to its very foundations . 
In an instant I was sobered , and understood what I had done . 
Princess ! I cried , what is happening ? Alas ! she exclaimed , forgetting all her own terrors in anxiety for me , fly , or you are lost . 
I followed her advice and dashed up the staircase , leaving my hatchet behind me . 
But I was too late . 
Feeling faint , I slipped and fell against the talisman , which broke . 
You are an impudent liar ! cried the genius . 
To this the genius only replied by insults and blows . 
You had better come down and speak to him yourself . 
At this speech I changed colour , and my legs trembled under me . 
I am a genius , he said , the son of the daughter of Eblis , prince of the genii . 
But how different she looked from what she was when I had last seen her , for she was lying stretched on the ground covered with blood , and weeping bitterly . 
Traitress ! cried the genius , is not this man your lover ? She lifted up her eyes slowly , and looked sadly at me . 
I never saw him before , she answered slowly . 
I do not know who he is . 
Alas , answered the princess , I am too weak even to hold the sabre . 
But the look of gratitude she gave me shook my courage , and I flung the sabre to the earth . 
Do with me as you will I am in your power but I refuse to obey your cruel command . 
I see , said the genius , that you have both made up your minds to brave me , but I will give you a sample of what you may expect . 
So saying , with one sweep of his sabre he cut off a hand of the princess , who was just able to lift the other to wave me an eternal farewell . 
Then I lost consciousness for several minutes . 
When I came to myself I implored the genius to keep me no longer in this state of suspense , but to lose no time in putting an end to my sufferings . 
The genius , however , paid no attention to my prayers , but said sternly , That is the way in which a genius treats the woman who has betrayed him . 
I caught eagerly at these words , as giving me a faint hope of softening his wrath . 
O genius ! I cried , as you wish to spare my life , be generous , and spare it altogether . 
Grant my prayer , and pardon my crime , as the best man in the whole world forgave his neighbour who was eaten up with envy of him . 
So he sold his house and the little furniture it contained , and moved into the capital of the country , which was luckily at no great distance . 
About half a mile from this city he bought a nice little place , with a large garden and a fair sized court , in the centre of which stood an old well . 
The fame of his virtue gradually spread abroad , and many people , including several of the highest quality , came to visit him and ask his prayers . 
The excuse he gave for his appearance was that he had come to consult the chief of the dervishes on a private matter of great importance . 
He then ran off triumphantly , without having been seen by anyone , and congratulating himself that the object of his hatred was dead , and would trouble him no more . 
by a set of fairies and genii , who caught the dervish as he fell , so that he received no hurt . 
And the first speaker answered , I will tell you . 
But his character soon won him the esteem of all , and the envious man's hatred grew , till he came here with the deliberate intention of causing his death . 
But what is the matter with the princess that she needs the dervish's prayers ? asked another voice . 
She has fallen into the power of the genius Maimoum , the son of Dimdim , replied the first voice . 
Now to cure the princess the dervish must pull out seven of these white hairs , burn three , and with their smoke perfume the head of the princess . 
This will deliver her so completely that Maimoum , the son of Dimdim , will never dare to approach her again . 
The dervishes , who could not imagine what had become of him , were enchanted at his reappearance . 
He told them of the attempt on his life made by his guest of the previous day , and then retired into his cell . 
He was soon joined here by the black cat of which the voice had spoken , who came as usual to say good morning to his master . 
He took him on his knee and seized the opportunity to pull seven white hairs out of his tail , and put them on one side till they were needed . 
Let your highness command her to come here , and I will see what I can do . 
The Sultan , full of hope , sent orders at once that the princess was to set out as soon as possible , accompanied by her usual staff of attendants . 
The instant they were consumed , terrific cries were heard , but no one could tell from whom they proceeded . 
Only the dervish guessed that they were uttered by Maimoum the son of Dimdim , who felt the princess escaping him . 
All this time she had seemed unconscious of what she was doing , but now she raised her hand to her veil and uncovered her face . 
That is my own opinion , said he , and from this moment I declare him to be my son in law . 
Shortly after these events , the grand vizir died , and his post was given to the dervish . 
One day , when the dervish , who had now become Sultan , was making a royal progress with his court , he perceived the envious man standing in the crowd . 
The vizir obeyed , and when the envious man was brought before the Sultan , the monarch said to him , My friend , I am delighted to see you again . 
He then took leave of the envious man , and went on his way . 
Now when I had ended my story , I proceeded to show the genius how to apply it to himself . 
O genius , I said , you see that this Sultan was not content with merely forgiving the envious man for the attempt on his life he heaped rewards and riches upon him . 
But the genius had made up his mind , and could not be softened . 
Do not imagine that you are going to escape so easily , he said . 
All I can do is to give you bare life you will have to learn what happens to people who interfere with me . 
Then , as before , he came down with the swiftness of lightning , and we touched the ground on a mountain top . 
This done , he vanished , and I was in the likeness of an ape , and in a country I had never seen before . 
However there was no use in stopping where I was , so I came down the mountain and found myself in a flat plain which was bounded by the sea . 
I travelled towards it , and was pleased to see a vessel moored about half a mile from shore . 
Throw him into the sea ! cried one . 
Knock him on the head with a hammer , exclaimed another . 
He appeared touched by my action and patted my head , and declared that he would take me under his protection , and that no one should do me any harm . 
Hitherto the search has been a failure , but his Highness has not yet given up hope . 
Let him do it if he wants to , said the captain . 
If he only makes a mess of the paper , you may be sure I will punish him for it . 
But if , as I hope , he really can write , for he is the cleverest monkey I ever saw , I will adopt him as my son . 
And not only did my handwriting completely eclipse that of the merchants , but it is hardly too much to say that none so beautiful had ever before been seen in that country . 
When I had ended the officials took the roll and returned to the Sultan . 
A monkey ! exclaimed the Sultan . 
Yes , sire , answered the officials . 
They were written by a monkey in our presence . 
Then bring me the monkey , he replied , as fast as you can . 
The Sultan's officials returned to the ship and showed the royal order to the captain . 
He is the master , said the good man , and desired that I should be sent for . 
Then they put on me the gorgeous robe and rowed me to land , where I was placed on the horse and led to the palace . 
Here the Sultan was awaiting me in great state surrounded by his court . 
However , excepting the usual speech , I omitted none of the common forms attending a royal audience . 
When it was over the Sultan dismissed all the court , keeping with him only the chief of the eunuchs and a little slave . 
He then passed into another room and ordered food to be brought , making signs to me to sit at table with him and eat . 
I rose from my seat , kissed the ground , and took my place at the table , eating , as you may suppose , with care and in moderation . 
Before the dishes were removed I made signs that writing materials , which stood in one corner of the room , should be laid in front of me . 
I kissed the ground and laid my hand on my head to show that I was ready to show myself worthy of the honour . 
He beat me the first game , but I won the second and third , and seeing that this did not quite please I dashed off a verse by way of consolation . 
The Sultan was so enchanted with all the talents of which I had given proof that he wished me to exhibit some of them to other people . 
So turning to the chief of the eunuchs he said , Go and beg my daughter , Queen of Beauty , to come here . 
I will show her something she has never seen before . 
The chief of the eunuchs bowed and left the room , ushering in a few moments later the princess , Queen of Beauty . 
Her face was uncovered , but the moment she set foot in the room she threw her veil over her head . 
Sire , answered the princess , I am right and you are wrong . 
As will be imagined , these words took the Sultan by surprise , and he looked at me to see how I should take the statement of the princess . 
As I was unable to speak , I placed my hand on my head to show that it was true . 
But how do you know this , my daughter ? asked he . 
Her art likewise teaches me to recognise at first sight all persons who are enchanted , and tells me by whom the spell was wrought . 
My daughter , said the Sultan , I really had no idea you were so clever . 
Sire , replied the princess , there are many out of the way things it is as well to know , but one should never boast of them . 
Well , asked the Sultan , can you tell me what must be done to disenchant the young prince ? Certainly and I can do it . 
Then restore him to his former shape , cried the Sultan . 
You could give me no greater pleasure , for I wish to make him my grand vizir , and to give him to you for your husband . 
As your Highness pleases , replied the princess . 
Queen of Beauty rose and went to her chamber , from which she fetched a knife with some Hebrew words engraven on the blade . 
Here she traced a large circle and in it wrote several words in Arab characters . 
When the circle and the writing were finished she stood in the middle of it and repeated some verses from the Koran . 
Dog , cried the princess when she first caught sight of him , you think to strike terror into me by daring to present yourself before me in this hideous shape . 
And you , retorted the lion , have not feared to break our treaty that engaged solemnly we should never interfere with each other . 
Accursed genius ! exclaimed the princess , it is you by whom that treaty was first broken . 
I will teach you how to give me so much trouble , said the lion , and opening his huge mouth he advanced to swallow her . 
But the princess expected something of the sort and was on her guard . 
She bounded on one side , and seizing one of the hairs of his mane repeated two or three words over it . 
In an instant it became a sword , and with a sharp blow she cut the lion's body into two pieces . 
These pieces vanished no one knew where , and only the lion's head remained , which was at once changed into a scorpion . 
But in a moment the serpent had become an eagle more powerful still , who soared up in the air and after him , and then we lost sight of them both . 
While this was taking place the wolf , who had transformed himself into a cock , began to swallow the seed of the pomegranate as fast as he could . 
At length they rose from the water in their proper forms , but darting such flames of fire from their mouths that we dreaded lest the palace should catch fire . 
Soon , however , we had much greater cause for alarm , as the genius , having shaken off the princess , flew towards us . 
Our fate would have been sealed if the princess , seeing our danger , had not attracted the attention of the genius to herself . 
Exhausted though she was , the princess at once ordered the little slave , who alone was uninjured , to bring her a cup of water , which she took in her hand . 
In an instant I stood before her the same man I had formerly been , though having lost the sight of one eye . 
I was about to fall on my knees and thank the princess but she did not give me time . 
Turning to the Sultan , her father , she said , Sire , I have gained the battle , but it has cost me dear . 
The fire has penetrated to my heart , and I have only a few moments to live . 
This would not have happened if I had only noticed the last pomegranate seed and eaten it like the rest . 
It was the last struggle of the genius , and up to that time I was quite safe . 
But having let this chance slip I was forced to resort to fire , and in spite of all his experience I showed the genius that I knew more than he did . 
He is dead and in ashes , but my own death is approaching fast . 
He could say no more , for sobs choked his voice , and we all wept together . 
Suddenly the princess shrieked , I burn , I burn ! and death came to free her from her torments . 
I have no words , madam , to tell you of my feelings at this terrible sight . 
I would rather have remained a monkey all my life than let my benefactress perish in this shocking manner . 
As for the Sultan , he was quite inconsolable , and his subjects , who had dearly loved the princess , shared his grief . 
For seven days the whole nation mourned , and then the ashes of the princess were buried with great pomp , and a superb tomb was raised over her . 
I was , of course , bound to obey , and not knowing what was to become of me I shaved my beard and eyebrows and put on the dress of a calender . 
After wandering aimlessly through several countries , I resolved to come to Bagdad and request an audience of the Commander of the Faithful . 
And that , madam , is my story . 
The other Calender then told his story . 
Story of the Third Calendar , Son of a King My story , said the Third Calender , is quite different from those of my two friends . 
It was fate that deprived them of the sight of their right eyes , but mine was lost by my own folly . 
These voyages gave me such a taste for sailing that I soon determined to explore more distant seas , and commanded a fleet of large ships to be got ready without delay . 
When they were properly fitted out I embarked on my expedition . 
This it is that causes the side of the mountain towards the sea to appear of such a dense blackness . 
So saying , the pilot began to weep afresh , and the crew , fearing their last hour had come , made their wills , each one in favour of his fellow . 
A moment after the vessels fell asunder and sank , the crews with them . 
I alone managed to grasp a floating plank , and was driven ashore by the wind , without even a scratch . 
And , indeed , even the steps themselves were so narrow and so steep that , if the lightest breeze had arisen , I should certainly have been blown into the sea . 
Step on board and let him conduct thee but if thou wouldest behold thy kingdom again , see that thou takest not the name of Allah into thy mouth . 
Having uttered these words the vision left me , and I woke , much comforted . 
I stepped silently in and sat down , and the metal man pushed off , and rowed without stopping for nine days , after which land appeared on the horizon . 
All that day and the next night I swam and floated alternately , making as well as I could for the land which was nearest to me . 
At last my strength began to fail , and I gave myself up for lost , when the wind suddenly rose , and a huge wave cast me on a flat shore . 
Then , placing myself in safety , I hastily spread my clothes out to dry in the sun , and flung myself on the warm ground to rest . 
Next morning I dressed myself and began to look about me . 
The sailors ran the ship into a creek , where ten slaves landed , carrying spades and pickaxes . 
In the middle of the island they stopped , and after digging some time , lifted up what seemed to be a trapdoor . 
This done , they entered the ship and set sail . 
As soon as they were out of sight , I came down from my tree , and went to the place where the boy had been buried . 
I dug up the earth till I reached a large stone with a ring in the centre . 
This , when removed , disclosed a flight of stone steps which led to a large room richly furnished and lighted by tapers . 
On a pile of cushions , covered with tapestry , sat the boy . 
I am a king , and the son of a king , and will do you no hurt . 
On the contrary , perhaps I have been sent here to deliver you out of this tomb , where you have been buried alive . 
One and all they said the same thing . 
I was to live happily till I was fifteen , when a terrible danger awaited me , which I should hardly escape . 
If , however , I should succeed in doing so , I should live to a great old age . 
For myself , I have no fears , as Prince Agib is not likely to come here to look for me . 
I need hardly say that I took special care not to inform him that I was the Agib whom he dreaded . 
The day passed in conversation on various subjects , and I found him a youth of ready wit and of some learning . 
I took on myself the duties of a servant , held the basin and water for him when he washed , prepared the dinner and set it on the table . 
He soon grew to love me , and for thirty nine days we spent as pleasant an existence as could be expected underground . 
The morning of the fortieth dawned , and the young man when he woke gave thanks in an outburst of joy that the danger was passed . 
So I fetched the water as he asked , and washed and rubbed him , after which he lay down again and slept a little . 
When he opened his eyes for the second time , he begged me to bring him a melon and some sugar , that he might eat and refresh himself . 
I soon chose a fine melon out of those which remained , but could find no knife to cut it with . 
Look in the cornice over my head , said he , and I think you will see one . 
At this awful sight I shrieked aloud in my grief and pain . 
I threw myself on the ground and rent my clothes and tore my hair with sorrow . 
In silence they all went down and called to the youth by name then for a moment I heard no more . 
When at last he revived , they left him to dig a grave , and then laying the young man's body in it , they threw in the earth . 
So once more I was quite alone , and for a whole month I walked daily over the island , seeking for some chance of escape . 
At length one day it struck me that my prison had grown much larger , and that the mainland seemed to be nearer . 
My heart beat at this thought , which was almost too good to be true . 
I watched a little longer there was no doubt about it , and soon there was only a tiny stream for me to cross . 
While I was still staring at it , there came towards me a tall old man , accompanied by ten young men , all handsome , and all blind of the right eye . 
I replied that my story was somewhat long , but that if they would take the trouble to sit down , I should be happy to tell it them . 
When I had finished , the young men begged that I would go with them to the castle , and I joyfully accepted their offer . 
As none of the sofas could hold more than one person , they bade me place myself on the carpet , and to ask no questions about anything I should see . 
After a little while the old man rose and brought in supper , which I ate heartily , for I was very hungry . 
At these words he rose , and went to a closet , from which he brought out ten basins , all covered with blue stuff . 
He set one before each of the young men , together with a lighted taper . 
When the covers were taken off the basins , I saw they were filled with ashes , coal dust , and lamp black . 
The young men mixed these all together , and smeared the whole over their heads and faces . 
They then wept and beat their breasts , crying , This is the fruit of idleness , and of our wicked lives . 
This ceremony lasted nearly the whole night , and when it stopped they washed themselves carefully , and put on fresh clothes , and lay down to sleep . 
You do not appear to lack wit , yet you do such actions as none but madmen could be capable of . 
It is for your own sake , replied one of the young men , that we have not granted your request , and to preserve you from our unfortunate fate . 
If , however , you wish to share our destiny we will delay no longer . 
I answered that whatever might be the consequence I wished to have my curiosity satisfied , and that I would take the result on my own head . 
But to this I replied that , though I should be grieved to part company with such honest gentlemen , I would not be turned from my resolution on that account . 
On hearing my determination my ten hosts then took a sheep and killed it , and handed me a knife , which they said I should by and by find useful . 
We must sew you into this sheep skin , said they , and then leave you . 
A fowl of monstrous size , called a roc , will appear in the air , taking you to be a sheep . 
He will snatch you up and carry you into the sky , but be not alarmed , for he will bring you safely down and lay you on the top of a mountain . 
When you are on the ground cut the skin with the knife and throw it off . 
This only we may say , that it cost us each our right eye , and has imposed upon us our nightly penance . 
After the young gentlemen had been at the trouble of sewing the sheep skin on me they left me , and retired to the hall . 
Then I set out to seek the castle . 
I found it after wandering about for half a day , and never could I have imagined anything so glorious . 
The gate led into a square court , into which opened a hundred doors , ninety nine of them being of rare woods and one of gold . 
Through each of these doors I caught glimpses of splendid gardens or of rich storehouses . 
Entering one of the doors which was standing open I found myself in a vast hall where forty young ladies , magnificently dressed , and of perfect beauty , were reclining . 
After I had eaten and drunk of the most delicate food and rarest wines , the ladies crowded round me and begged me to tell them all my adventures . 
By the time I had finished night had fallen , and the ladies lighted up the castle with such a prodigious quantity of tapers that even day could hardly have been brighter . 
We then sat down to a supper of dried fruits and sweetmeats , after which some sang and others danced . 
Then , bidding me good night , I was left to sleep . 
in my room one morning to inquire how I had slept , and instead of looking cheerful and smiling they were in floods of tears . 
Prince , said they , we must leave you , and never was it so hard to part from any of our friends . 
Most likely we shall never see you again , but if you have sufficient self command perhaps we may yet look forward to a meeting . 
We live in this castle together , in the way that you have seen , but at the end of every year secret duties call us away for the space of forty days . 
The time has now come but before we depart , we will leave you our keys , so that you may not lack entertainment during our absence . 
But one thing we would ask of you . 
The Golden Door , alone , forbear to open , as you value your own peace , and the happiness of your life . 
That door once unlocked , we must bid you farewell for ever . 
Weeping , I assured them of my prudence , and after embracing me tenderly , they went their ways . 
Sometimes it was an orchard , whose fruit far exceeded in bigness any that grew in my father's garden . 
Sometimes it was a court planted with roses , jessamine , dafeodils , hyacinths and anemones , and a thousand other flowers of which I did not know the names . 
Thirty nine days passed away more rapidly than I could have conceived possible , and the following morning the princesses were to return to the castle . 
But alas ! I had explored every corner , save only the room that was shut in by the Golden Door , and I had no longer anything to amuse myself with . 
It would be enough for me to stand outside and view whatever hidden wonders might be therein . 
His saddle and bridle were of massive gold , curiously wrought one side of his trough was filled with clean barley and sesame , and the other with rose water . 
, and flew up with me straight into the sky . 
The ten young men were not present when I first entered , but came in soon after , accompanied by the old man . 
They greeted me kindly , and bewailed my misfortune , though , indeed , they had expected nothing less . 
You have been no wiser than we , and have suffered the same punishment . 
We would gladly receive you among us , to perform such penance as we do , but we have already told you that this is impossible . 
Depart , therefore , from hence and go to the Court of Bagdad , where you shall meet with him that can decide your destiny . 
They told me the way I was to travel , and I left them . 
On the road I caused my beard and eyebrows to be shaved , and put on a Calender's habit . 
I have had a long journey , but arrived this evening in the city , where I met my brother Calenders at the gate , being strangers like myself . 
We wondered much at one another , to see we were all blind of the same eye , but we had no leisure to discourse at length of our common calamities . 
We had only so much time as to come hither to implore those favours which you have been generously pleased to grant us . 
He finished , and it was Zobeida's turn to speak Go wherever you please , she said , addressing all three . 
I pardon you all , but you must depart immediately out of this house . 
He wondered who lived in this magnificent house which he had never seen before , the street in which it stood being one which he seldom had occasion to pass . 
To satisfy his curiosity he went up to some splendidly dressed servants who stood at the door , and asked one of them the name of the master of the mansion . 
Casting his eyes up to the sky he exclaimed aloud , Consider , Mighty Creator of all things , the differences between Sindbad's life and mine . 
However the lackey promised him that it should be taken care of , and urged him to obey the call so pressingly that at last the porter was obliged to yield . 
He followed the servant into a vast room , where a great company was seated round a table covered with all sorts of delicacies . 
In the place of honour sat a tall , grave man whose long white beard gave him a venerable air . 
Behind his chair stood a crowd of attendants eager to minister to his wants . 
This was the famous Sindbad himself . 
The porter , more than ever alarmed at the sight of so much magnificence , tremblingly saluted the noble company . 
My lord , replied the porter , I am called Hindbad . 
I am glad to see you here , continued Sindbad . 
For Sindbad , passing by the open window before the feast began , had heard his complaint and therefore had sent for him . 
Oh ! replied Sindbad , do not imagine that I am so unjust as to blame you . 
On the contrary , I understand your situation and can pity you . 
Only you appear to be mistaken about me , and I wish to set you right . 
You doubtless imagine that I have acquired all the wealth and luxury that you see me enjoy without difficulty or danger , but this is far indeed from being the case . 
I have only reached this happy state after having for years suffered every possible kind of toil and danger . 
I was at first much troubled by the uneasy motion of the vessel , but speedily recovered my health , and since that hour have been no more plagued by sea sickness . 
Our sails were furled , and the captain gave permission to all who wished to land for a while and amuse themselves . 
In the meantime I heard many curious things , and answered many questions concerning my own country , for I talked willingly with all who came to me . 
Indeed , the sailors assured me that often at night the playing of timbals could be heard upon it . 
Other fishes there were only a cubit long which had heads like owls . 
There was on board my ship , he replied , a merchant of Bagdad named Sindbad . 
One day he and several of my other passengers landed upon what we supposed to be an island , but which was really an enormous whale floating asleep upon the waves . 
No sooner did it feel upon its back the heat of the fire which had been kindled , than it plunged into the depths of the sea . 
Several of the people who were upon it perished in the waters , and among others this unlucky Sindbad . 
This merchandise is his , but I have resolved to dispose of it for the benefit of his family if I should ever chance to meet with them . 
Have patience , and do me the favour to hear my story , said I. Speak then , replied the captain , I'm all attention . 
So I told him of my escape and of my fortunate meeting with the king's grooms , and how kindly I had been received at the palace . 
Throwing himself upon my neck he exclaimed , Heaven be praised that you have escaped from so great a danger . 
As to your goods , I pray you take them , and dispose of them as you please . 
I thanked him , and praised his honesty , begging him to accept several bales of merchandise in token of my gratitude , but he would take nothing . 
Of the choicest of my goods I prepared a present for King Mihrage , who was at first amazed , having known that I had lost my all . 
However , when I had explained to him how my bales had been miraculously restored to me , he graciously accepted my gifts , and in return gave me many valuable things . 
My family received me with as much joy as I felt upon seeing them once more . 
Here Sindbad paused , and commanded the musicians to play again , while the feasting continued until evening . 
The next day Hindbad , dressed in his best , returned to the voyager's house , and was received with open arms . 
How long I slept I know not , but when I opened my eyes and started to my feet I perceived with horror that I was alone and that the ship was gone . 
But since wishes could do me no good , I presently took courage and looked about me for a means of escape . 
Descending from the tree I hastily collected what remained of my provisions and set off as fast as I could go towards it . 
As I drew near it seemed to me to be a white ball of immense size and height , and when I could touch it , I found it marvellously smooth and soft . 
As it was impossible to climb it for it presented no foot hold I walked round about it seeking some opening , but there was none . 
I counted , however , that it was at least fifty paces round . 
And this was precisely what did happen . 
When I had looked about me I began to doubt if I had gained anything by quitting the desolate island . 
As I wandered about , seeking anxiously for some means of escaping from this trap , I observed that the ground was strewed with diamonds , some of them of an astonishing size . 
Fortunately for me they seemed to hide in caverns of the rocks by day , and only came out by night , probably because of their enemy the roc . 
It was a huge piece of fresh meat , and as I stared at it several more pieces rolled over the cliffs in different places . 
These merchants came to the valley at the time when the eagles , which keep their eyries in the rocks , had hatched their young . 
The merchants then threw great lumps of meat into the valley . 
Then the merchants , scaring away the parent birds with shouts and outcries , would secure their treasures . 
I began by picking up all the largest diamonds I could find and storing them carefully in the leathern wallet which had held my provisions this I tied securely to my belt . 
Luckily for me the merchants were on the watch , and setting up their usual outcries they rushed to the nest scaring away the eagle . 
Their amazement was great when they discovered me , and also their disappointment , and with one accord they fell to abusing me for having robbed them of their usual profit . 
So saying I showed them to him . 
I found that each merchant chose a particular nest , and took his chance of what he might find in it . 
I stayed with the merchants several days , and then as they were journeying homewards I gladly accompanied them . 
Our way lay across high mountains infested with frightful serpents , but we had the good luck to escape them and came at last to the seashore . 
Thence we sailed to the isle of Rohat where the camphor trees grow to such a size that a hundred men could shelter under one of them with ease . 
In this same island we saw the rhinoceros , an animal which is smaller than the elephant and larger than the buffalo . 
It has one horn about a cubit long which is solid , but has a furrow from the base to the tip . 
Upon it is traced in white lines the figure of a man . 
This doubtless astonishes you , but if you do not believe my tale go to Rohat and see for yourself . 
For fear of wearying you I pass over in silence many other wonderful things which we saw in this island . 
Before we left I exchanged one of my diamonds for much goodly merchandise by which I profited greatly on our homeward way . 
Again after the feast was over did Sindbad claim the attention of his guests and began the account of his third voyage . 
Third Voyage After a very short time the pleasant easy life I led made me quite forget the perils of my two voyages . 
Moreover , as I was still in the prime of life , it pleased me better to be up and doing . 
So once more providing myself with the rarest and choicest merchandise of Bagdad , I conveyed it to Balsora , and set sail with other merchants of my acquaintance for distant lands . 
I would rather have come to anchor anywhere than here , quoth our captain . 
These words caused great consternation among all the ship's company , and only too soon we were to find out that the captain spoke truly . 
There appeared a vast multitude of hideous savages , not more than two feet high and covered with reddish fur . 
Throwing themselves into the waves they surrounded our vessel . 
Of this we were not left long in doubt . 
The sun was setting when a loud noise aroused us , the door of the hall was violently burst open and a horrible giant entered . 
He was as tall as a palm tree , and perfectly black , and had one eye , which flamed like a burning coal in the middle of his forehead . 
At this terrible sight our senses left us and we lay like dead men . 
When at last we came to ourselves the giant sat examining us attentively with his fearful eye . 
When we believed him to be really gone we started up bemoaning our horrible fate , until the hall echoed with our despairing cries . 
At sunset the giant returned , supped upon one of our unhappy comrades , slept and snored till dawn , and then left us as before . 
Listen , my brothers , I added . 
You know that plenty of driftwood lies along the shore . 
Let us make several rafts , and carry them to a suitable place . 
If our plot succeeds , we can wait patiently for the chance of some passing ship which would rescue us from this fatal island . 
If it fails , we must quickly take to our rafts frail as they are , we have more chance of saving our lives with them than we have if we remain here . 
All agreed with me , and we spent the day in building rafts , each capable of carrying three persons . 
At nightfall we returned to the castle , and very soon in came the giant , and one more of our number was sacrificed . 
After a vain search he fumbled about till he found the door , and fled out of it howling frightfully . 
As for us , when he was gone we made haste to leave the fatal castle , and , stationing ourselves beside our rafts , we waited to see what would happen . 
Hesitating no longer we clambered upon our rafts and rowed with all our might out to sea . 
There we found delicious fruits , and having satisfied our hunger we presently lay down to rest upon the shore . 
Suddenly we were aroused by a loud rustling noise , and starting up , saw that it was caused by an immense snake which was gliding towards us over the sand . 
You may imagine what a fearful night I passed , for the snake returned eager to devour me , and glided round and round my frail shelter seeking an entrance . 
But to my joy and relief I saw a ship sailing by , and by shouting wildly and waving my turban I managed to attract the attention of her crew . 
After sailing about for some time and touching at many ports we came at last to the island of Salahat , where sandal wood grows in great abundance . 
I consented gladly , for I did not like standing by idle . 
Whereupon he pointed the bales out to me , and sent for the person whose duty it was to keep a list of the goods that were upon the ship . 
When this man came he asked in what name the merchandise was to be registered . 
In the name of Sindbad the Sailor , replied the captain . 
As for him , believing me to be dead it was no wonder that he had not recognised me . 
So , captain , said I , the merchant who owned those bales was called Sindbad ? Yes , he replied . 
By that time the wind had freshened , and it was impossible to put back for him . 
You suppose him to have perished then ? said I. Alas ! yes , he answered . 
Why , captain ! I cried , look well at me . 
I am glad to have that piece of carelessness off my conscience at any rate , said he . 
Now take your goods , and the profit I have made for you upon them , and may you prosper in future . 
I took them gratefully , and as we went from one island to another I laid in stores of cloves , cinnamon , and other spices . 
Another I saw that was like a camel in shape and colour . 
So by degrees we came back to Balsora , and I returned to Bagdad with so much money that I could not myself count it , besides treasures without end . 
I gave largely to the poor , and bought much land to add to what I already possessed , and thus ended my third voyage . 
Fourth Voyage Rich and happy as I was after my third voyage , I could not make up my mind to stay at home altogether . 
At daylight we wandered inland , and soon saw some huts , to which we directed our steps . 
As we drew near their black inhabitants swarmed out in great numbers and surrounded us , and we were led to their houses , and as it were divided among our captors . 
Though they chattered incessantly I could not understand a word they said , nor did they heed when I spoke to them . 
My unlucky companions having lost their reason , felt neither anxiety nor fear , and ate greedily all that was offered them . 
Reassured by the nature of their occupation , I advanced towards them and they greeted me in Arabic , asking who I was and whence I came . 
My delight was great on hearing this familiar speech , and I willingly satisfied their curiosity , telling them how I had been shipwrecked , and captured by the blacks . 
But these savages devour men ! said they . 
How did you escape ? I repeated to them what I have just told you , at which they were mightily astonished . 
Moreover , the king treated me with special favour , and in consequence of this everyone , whether at the court or in the town , sought to make life pleasant to me . 
One thing I remarked which I thought very strange this was that , from the greatest to the least , all men rode their horses without bridle or stirrups . 
When I had saddled one of his horses he mounted it and rode about quite delighted with the novelty , and to show his gratitude he rewarded me with large gifts . 
One day the king sent for me and said , Sindbad , I am going to ask a favour of you . 
Both I and my subjects esteem you , and wish you to end your days amongst us . 
Therefore I desire that you will marry a rich and beautiful lady whom I will find for you , and think no more of your own country . 
As the king's will was law I accepted the charming bride he presented to me , and lived happily with her . 
Nevertheless I had every intention of escaping at the first opportunity , and going back to Bagdad . 
I went to his house to offer my consolations , and found him in the depths of woe . 
I trust that you may be spared to me for many years . 
I hope , answered he , that your life may be long , but as for me , all is finished . 
I have set my house in order , and to day I shall be buried with my wife . 
This has been the law upon our island from the earliest ages the living husband goes to the grave with his dead wife , the living wife with her dead husband . 
So did our fathers , and so must we do . 
The law changes not , and all must submit to it ! As he spoke the friends and relations of the unhappy pair began to assemble . 
When the place of interment was reached the corpse was lowered , just as it was , into a deep pit . 
Sire , I said , I am more astonished than I can express to you at the strange custom which exists in your dominions of burying the living with the dead . 
In all my travels I have never before met with so cruel and horrible a law . 
What would you have , Sindbad ? he replied . 
It is the law for everybody . 
I myself should be buried with the Queen if she were the first to die . 
When I heard this I went home much cast down , and from that time forward my mind was never easy . 
If only my wife's little finger ached I fancied she was going to die , and sure enough before very long she fell really ill and in a few days breathed her last . 
My dismay was great , for it seemed to me that to be buried alive was even a worse fate than to be devoured by cannibals , nevertheless there was no escape . 
The body of my wife , arrayed in her richest robes and decked with all her jewels , was laid upon the bier . 
Almost before I reached the bottom the stone was rolled into its place above my head , and I was left to my fate . 
I even fancied that I heard the expiring sighs of those who , like myself , had come into this dismal place alive . 
In a moment my mind was made up , the woman who followed had nothing to expect but a lingering death I should be doing her a service if I shortened her misery . 
Turning to the place from which the sound came I dimly saw a shadowy form which fled at my movement , squeezing itself through a cranny in the wall . 
I pursued it as fast as I could , and found myself in a narrow crack among the rocks , along which I was just able to force my way . 
I hastily surveyed my surroundings , and saw that I was safe from all pursuit from the town . 
The mountains sloped sheer down to the sea , and there was no road across them . 
Being assured of this I returned to the cavern , and amassed a rich treasure of diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and jewels of all kinds which strewed the ground . 
These I made up into bales , and stored them into a safe place upon the beach , and then waited hopefully for the passing of a ship . 
Luckily for me they believed my story , and without even looking at the place where they found me , took up my bundles , and rowed me back to the ship . 
Here Sindbad paused , and all his hearers declared that the adventures of his fourth voyage had pleased them better than anything they had heard before . 
When the time came all were in their places , and when they had eaten and drunk of all that was set before them Sindbad began his tale . 
Fifth Voyage Not even all that I had gone through could make me contented with a quiet life . 
I soon wearied of its pleasures , and longed for change and adventure . 
Therefore I set out once more , but this time in a ship of my own , which I built and fitted out at the nearest seaport . 
We set sail with the first favourable wind , and after a long voyage upon the open seas we landed upon an unknown island which proved to be uninhabited . 
In spite of all I could say to deter them , the merchants who were with me fell upon it with their hatchets , breaking the shell , and killing the young roc . 
Then lighting a fire upon the ground they hacked morsels from the bird , and proceeded to roast them while I stood by aghast . 
Scarcely had they finished their ill omened repast , when the air above us was darkened by two mighty shadows . 
Its shores were steep and rocky , but I scrambled up safely and threw myself down to rest upon the green turf . 
When I had somewhat recovered I began to examine the spot in which I found myself , and truly it seemed to me that I had reached a garden of delights . 
There were trees everywhere , and they were laden with flowers and fruit , while a crystal stream wandered in and out under their shadow . 
However , the morning sunlight restored my courage , and I once more wandered among the trees , but always with some anxiety as to what I might see next . 
Going up to him I greeted him in a friendly way , but he only nodded his head at me in reply . 
Pitying his age and feebleness , I took him up , and wading across the stream I bent down that he might more easily reach the bank , and bade him get down . 
This island is well known as the scene of his evil deeds , and no merchant or sailor who lands upon it cares to stray far away from his comrades . 
He then provided me with a large sack , and pointed out to me a party of others equipped in like manner . 
Go with them , said he , and do as they do , but beware of losing sight of them , for if you strayed your life would be in danger . 
With that he supplied me with provisions , and bade me farewell , and I set out with my new companions . 
This I did , and before long had amassed a considerable sum . 
Sixth Voyage It must be a marvel to you how , after having five times met with shipwreck and unheard of perils , I could again tempt fortune and risk fresh trouble . 
Instead of going by the Persian Gulf , I travelled a considerable way overland , and finally embarked from a distant Indian port with a captain who meant to make a long voyage . 
This speech discouraged us much , and we began to lament over our sad fate . 
I myself could live upon very little . 
This river which hid itself underground doubtless emerged again at some distant spot . 
Once out in the current my raft flew swiftly under the gloomy archway , and I found myself in total darkness , carried smoothly forward by the rapid river . 
On I went as it seemed to me for many nights and days . 
I rose and saluted them , and they spoke to me in return , but I could not understand a word of their language . 
I was soon supplied with all I needed , and having satisfied my hunger I told them faithfully all that had befallen me . 
So , procuring a horse , they mounted me upon it , and we set out , followed by several strong men carrying my raft just as it was upon their shoulders . 
I am Sindbad , I replied , whom men call the Sailor , for I have voyaged much upon many seas . 
And how come you here ? asked the king . 
Heaven forbid that I should covet your riches I will rather add to them , for I desire that you shall not leave my kingdom without some tokens of my good will . 
The island of Serendib being situated on the equinoctial line , the days and nights there are of equal length . 
The chief city is placed at the end of a beautiful valley , formed by the highest mountain in the world , which is in the middle of the island . 
I had the curiosity to ascend to its very summit , for this was the place to which Adam was banished out of Paradise . 
Here are found rubies and many precious things , and rare plants grow abundantly , with cedar trees and cocoa palms . 
On the seashore and at the mouths of the rivers the divers seek for pearls , and in some valleys diamonds are plentiful . 
After many days I petitioned the king that I might return to my own country , to which he graciously consented . 
I accepted the charge respectfully , and soon embarked upon the vessel which the king himself had chosen for me . 
Then quantities of aloes wood , camphor , and pistachio nuts and lastly , a beautiful slave girl , whose robes glittered with precious stones . 
Commander of the Faithful , I replied , again bowing humbly before him , I can assure your Majesty that he has in no way exaggerated his wealth and grandeur . 
Nothing can equal the magnificence of his palace . 
When he goes abroad his throne is prepared upon the back of an elephant , and on either side of him ride his ministers , his favourites , and courtiers . 
Further , my lord , in Serendib no judge is needed , for to the king himself his people come for justice . 
The Caliph was well satisfied with my report . 
From the king's letter , said he , I judged that he was a wise man . 
It seems that he is worthy of his people , and his people of him . 
So saying he dismissed me with rich presents , and I returned in peace to my own house . 
Seventh and Last Voyage After my sixth voyage I was quite determined that I would go to sea no more . 
I was now of an age to appreciate a quiet life , and I had run risks enough . 
I only wished to end my days in peace . 
After I had saluted him , the Caliph said I have sent for you , Sindbad , because I need your services . 
I have chosen you to bear a letter and a gift to the King of Serendib in return for his message of friendship . 
The Caliph's commandment fell upon me like a thunderbolt . 
Indeed , I have made a vow never again to leave Bagdad . 
With this I gave him a long account of some of my strangest adventures , to which he listened patiently . 
I admit , said he , that you have indeed had some extraordinary experiences , but I do not see why they should hinder you from doing as I wish . 
You have only to go straight to Serendib and give my message , then you are free to come back and do as you will . 
But go you must my honour and dignity demand it . 
I was soon ready to start , and taking the letter and the present I embarked at Balsora , and sailed quickly and safely to Serendib . 
Here , when I had disclosed my errand , I was well received , and brought into the presence of the king , who greeted me with joy . 
Welcome , Sindbad , he cried . 
I have thought of you often , and rejoice to see you once more . 
After thanking him for the honour that he did me , I displayed the Caliph's gifts . 
First a bed with complete hangings all cloth of gold , which cost a thousand sequins , and another like to it of crimson stuff . 
Fifty robes of rich embroidery , a hundred of the finest white linen from Cairo , Suez , Cufa , and Alexandria . 
When they had despoiled us of all we possessed , they forced us to put on vile raiment , and sailing to a distant island there sold us for slaves . 
I answered that I was a rich merchant who had been captured by pirates , and therefore I knew no trade . 
Upon this he provided me with a bow and arrows , and mounting me with him upon his own elephant took the way to a vast forest which lay far from the town . 
When we had reached the wildest part of it we stopped , and my master said to me This forest swarms with elephants . 
Hide yourself in this great tree , and shoot at all that pass you . 
When you have succeeded in killing one come and tell me . 
So saying he gave me a supply of food , and returned to the town , and I perched myself high up in the tree and kept watch . 
That night I saw nothing , but just after sunrise the next morning a large herd of elephants came crashing and trampling by . 
For two months I hunted thus , and no day passed without my securing , an elephant . 
Of course I did not always station myself in the same tree , but sometimes in one place , sometimes in another . 
After a day and a night I reached my master's house , and was received by him with joyful surprise . 
Ah ! poor Sindbad , he cried , I was wondering what could have become of you . 
When I went to the forest I found the tree newly uprooted , and the arrows lying beside it , and I feared I should never see you again . 
Pray tell me how you escaped death . 
I soon satisfied his curiosity , and the next day we went together to the Ivory Hill , and he was overjoyed to find that I had told him nothing but the truth . 
I will no longer conceal from you that these wild elephants have killed numbers of our slaves every year . 
No matter what good advice we gave them , they were caught sooner or later . 
You alone have escaped the wiles of these animals , therefore you must be under the special protection of Heaven . 
Now through you the whole town will be enriched without further loss of life , therefore you shall not only receive your liberty , but I will also bestow a fortune upon you . 
To which I replied , Master , I thank you , and wish you all prosperity . 
For myself I only ask liberty to return to my own country . 
It is well , he answered , the monsoon will soon bring the ivory ships hither , then I will send you on your way with somewhat to pay your passage . 
So I stayed with him till the time of the monsoon , and every day we added to our store of ivory till all his ware houses were overflowing with it . 
By this time the other merchants knew the secret , but there was enough and to spare for all . 
My first care was to present myself before the Caliph , and give him an account of my embassy . 
He assured me that my long absence had disquieted him much , but he had nevertheless hoped for the best . 
As to my adventure among the elephants he heard it with amazement , declaring that he could not have believed it had not my truthfulness been well known to him . 
By his orders this story and the others I had told him were written by his scribes in letters of gold , and laid up among his treasures . 
Moreover , the generous use you make of your wealth proves that you deserve it . 
May you live long and happily in the enjoyment in it . 
One day , when the tailor was hard at work , a little hunchback came and sat at the entrance of the shop , and began to sing and play his tambourine . 
The tailor was amused with the antics of the fellow , and thought he would take him home to divert his wife . 
The hunchback having agreed to his proposal , the tailor closed his shop and they set off together . 
So the tailor picked up the hunchback by his head while his wife took his feet and carried him to the doctor's house . 
Then they knocked at the door , which opened straight on to a steep staircase . 
A servant soon appeared , feeling her way down the dark staircase and inquired what they wanted . 
, that he was transported with joy . 
Get a light , he called to the servant , and follow me as fast as you can ! and rushing out of his room he ran towards the staircase . 
A light ! a light ! he cried again , and when it was brought and he saw what he had done he was almost beside himself with terror . 
Agitated though he was , and with reason , the doctor did not forget to shut the house door , lest some passers by might chance to see what had happened . 
He then took up the corpse and carried it into his wife's room , nearly driving her crazy with fright . 
It is all over with us ! she wailed , if we cannot find some means of getting the body out of the house . 
For a long while the doctor and his wife continued to turn over in their minds a way of escape , but could not find any that seemed good enough . 
At last the doctor gave it up altogether and resigned himself to bear the penalty of his misfortune . 
Now this Mussulman was employed by the Sultan , and furnished his table with oil and butter . 
Part of his house was occupied by a great storeroom , where rats and mice held high revel . 
When they felt he was touching the ground they drew up the cords and left him . 
Scarcely had they got back to their own house when the purveyor entered his room . 
He had spent the evening at a wedding feast , and had a lantern in his hand . 
In the dim light it cast he was astonished to see a man standing in his chimney , but being naturally courageous he seized a stick and made straight for the supposed thief . 
Ah ! he cried , so it is you , and not the rats and mice , who steal my butter . 
I'll take care that you don't want to come back ! So saying he struck him several hard blows . 
Then , finding he was quite dead , a cold fear took possession of him . 
Wretch that I am , said he , I have murdered a man . 
Ah , my revenge has gone too far . 
Without tho help of Allah I am undone ! Cursed be the goods which have led me to my ruin . 
And already he felt the rope round his neck . 
Though he was very drunk , he was yet sober enough to know that the dawn was at hand , and that all good Mussulmen would shortly be going to prayer . 
So he hastened his steps lest he should meet some one on his way to the mosque , who , seeing his condition , would send him to prison as a drunkard . 
He then called loudly for help , beating the fallen man all the while . 
The chief policeman of the quarter came running up , and found a Christian ill treating a Mussulman . 
What are you doing ? he asked indignantly . 
He tried to rob me , replied the merchant , and very nearly choked me . 
Well , you have had your revenge , said the man , catching hold of his arm . 
Come , be off with you ! As he spoke he held out his hand to the hunchback to help him up , but the hunchback never moved . 
The merchant was still pondering on this subject when he was summoned before the chief of police and questioned about his crime , which he could not deny . 
As the hunchback was one of the Sultan's private jesters , the chief of police resolved to defer sentence of death until he had consulted his master . 
He went to the palace to demand an audience , and told his story to the Sultan , who only answered , There is no pardon for a Christian who kills a Mussulman . 
When all was ready the merchant was brought from prison and led to the foot of the gallows . 
You are going , he said to the chief of police , to kill an innocent man , for it is impossible that he should have murdered a creature who was dead already . 
It is bad enough for me to have slain a Mussulman without having it on my conscience that a Christian who is guiltless should suffer through my fault . 
Last night a man and a woman who were strangers to me knocked at my door , bringing with them a patient for me to cure . 
While she was telling me her story they seem to have carried the sick man to the top of the staircase and then left him there . 
When I examined the body I found it was quite dead , and the corpse was that of a hunchback Mussulman . 
The purveyor , finding him in his room , naturally thought he was a thief , and struck him such a blow that the man fell down and lay motionless on the floor . 
Therefore send away this man , I pray you , and let me take his place , as it is I who am guilty . 
On hearing the declaration of the Jewish doctor , the chief of police commanded that he should be led to the gallows , and the Sultan's purveyor go free . 
He sang me several songs , and then I invited him to finish the evening at my house . 
He accepted my invitation , and we went away together . 
We felt deeply sorry for his death , but fearing lest we should be held responsible , we carried the corpse to the house of the Jewish doctor . 
Directly she had disappeared I dragged the body to the top of the stairs , and then hurried away with my wife back to our house . 
In descending the stairs the doctor accidentally knocked over the corpse , and finding him dead believed that he himself was the murderer . 
But now you know the truth set him free , and let me die in his stead . 
The chief of police and the crowd of spectators were lost in astonishment at the strange events to which the death of the hunchback had given rise . 
Loosen the Jewish doctor , said he to the hangman , and string up the tailor instead , since he has made confession of his crime . 
Really , one cannot deny that this is a very singular story , and it deserves to be written in letters of gold . 
A man was arrested for having caused his death , and held in custody till a gallows was erected . 
When the procession reached the palace the chief of police prostrated himself at the feet of the Sultan , and related all that he knew of the matter . 
The Sultan asked everybody concerned in the hunchback's affair to tell him their stories . 
Among others was a prating barber , whose tale of one of his brothers follows . 
Story of the Barber's Fifth Brother As long as our father lived Alnaschar was very idle . 
Instead of working for his bread he was not ashamed to ask for it every evening , and to support himself next day on what he had received the night before . 
When our father died , worn out by age , he only left seven hundred silver drachmas to be divided amongst us , which made one hundred for each son . 
Alnaschar , who had never possessed so much money in his life , was quite puzzled to know what to do with it . 
After reflecting upon the matter for some time he decided to lay it out on glasses , bottles , and things of that sort , which he would buy from a wholesale merchant . 
In this attitude he remained seated , his eyes fixed on the basket , but his thoughts far away . 
Unknown to himself he began to talk out loud , and a tailor , whose shop was next door to his , heard quite plainly what he was saying . 
This basket , said Alnaschar to himself , has cost me a hundred drachmas all that I possess in the world . 
Now in selling the contents piece by piece I shall turn two hundred , and these hundreds I shall again lay out in glass , which will produce four hundred . 
By this means I shall in course of time make four thousand drachmas , which will easily double themselves . 
At my feasts I will send for musicians and dancers from the neighbouring town to amuse my guests . 
Should the vizir refuse my proposal , which after all is hardly to be expected , I will seize him by the beard and drag him to my house . 
When I shall have married his daughter I will give her ten of the best eunuchs that can be found for her service . 
He will then embrace me as his son in law , and giving me his seat will place himself below me . 
, two of my servants will enter , each bearing a purse containing a thousand pieces of gold . 
After hearing of such generosity the world will talk of nothing else . 
Should she send one to me I shall refuse it and dismiss the bearer . 
No establishment will be better ordered than mine , and I shall take care always to be dressed in a manner suitable to my position . 
Then her women will say to me , Respected lord and master , your wife and slave is before you waiting to be noticed . 
She is mortified that you never deign to look her way she is tired of standing so long . 
Beg her , we pray you , to be seated . 
Of course I shall give no signs of even hearing this speech , which will vex them mightily . 
They will then return to the charge , but this time it will take much longer before they persuade me even to look at my wife . 
It is as well to begin on my wedding day as I mean to go on for the rest of our lives . 
The next day she will complain to her mother of the way she has been treated , which will fill my heart with joy . 
, My lord , do not , I implore you , refuse to look upon my daughter or to approach her . 
She only lives to please you , and loves you with all her soul . 
But I shall pay no more heed to my mother in law's words than I did to those of the women . 
Again she will beseech me to listen to her entreaties , throwing herself this time at my feet , but all to no purpose . 
Sick of her importunities , these words will goad me to fury . 
My brother , pursued the barber , was so much absorbed in his dreams that he actually did give a kick with his foot , which unluckily hit the basket of glass . 
It fell into the street and was instantly broken into a thousand pieces . 
His neighbour the tailor , who had been listening to his visions , broke into a loud fit of laughter as he saw this sight . 
Wretched man ! he cried , you ought to die of shame at behaving so to a young wife who has done nothing to you . 
You must be a brute for her tears and prayers not to touch your heart . 
It was a Friday , so these were more numerous than usual . 
She stopped and inquired what was the matter , and why the man wept . 
They told her that he was a poor man who had laid out all his money on this basket of glass , which was now broken . 
On hearing the cause of these loud wails the lady turned to her attendant and said to him , Give him whatever you have got with you . 
The man obeyed , and placed in my brother's hands a purse containing five hundred pieces of gold . 
Alnaschar almost died of joy on receiving it . 
He blessed the lady a thousand times , and , shutting up his shop where he had no longer anything to do , he returned home . 
He was still absorbed in contemplating his good fortune , when a knock came to his door , and on opening it he found an old woman standing outside . 
My son , she said , I have a favour to ask of you . 
It is the hour of prayer and I have not yet washed myself . 
Let me , I beg you , enter your house , and give me water . 
My brother , although the old woman was a stranger to him , did not hesitate to do as she wished . 
The old woman started back in surprise as if she had received an insult . 
I am thankful to say I do not need it , for I belong to a beautiful lady who is very rich and gives me everything I want . 
Willingly , she replied and she will be charmed to marry you , and to make you the master of all her wealth . 
So pick up your money and follow me . 
They walked for some distance till the old woman stopped at a large house , where she knocked . 
The door was opened by a young Greek slave , and the old woman led my brother across a well paved court into a well furnished hall . 
Here she left him to inform her mistress of his presence , and as the day was hot he flung himself on a pile of cushions and took off his heavy turban . 
In a few minutes there entered a lady , and my brother perceived at the first glance that she was even more beautiful and more richly dressed than he had expected . 
He rose from his seat , but the lady signed to him to sit down again and placed herself beside him . 
Then rising hastily she left him , saying , Stay where you are , I will come back in a moment . 
He waited as he was told , but instead of the lady there entered a huge black slave with a sword in his hand . 
As soon as he was let go , he sank on the ground powerless to move , though he still had possession of his senses . 
Luckily she did not observe him , and when she was out of sight he stole from this nest of assassins and took refuge in my house . 
I dressed his wounds and tended him carefully , and when a month had passed he was as well as ever . 
This he tied round him with his sash , and , disguising himself as an old woman , he took a sabre , which he hid under his dress . 
One morning as he was hobbling through the streets he met his old enemy prowling to see if she could find anyone to decoy . 
Good woman , replied the old hag , you could not have asked anyone better . 
My son is a money changer , and if you will follow me he will weigh them for you himself . 
Only we must be quick or he will have gone to his shop . 
So saying she led the way to the same house as before , and the door was opened by the same Greek slave . 
Again my brother was left in the hall , and the pretended son appeared under the form of the black slave . 
Miserable crone , he said to my brother , get up and come with me , and turned to lead the way to the place of murder . 
Alnaschar rose too , and drawing the sabre from under his dress dealt the black such a blow on his neck that his head was severed from his body . 
My brother , however , was too quick for her , and in another instant her head was rolling from her shoulders . 
The noise brought the old woman running to see what was the matter , and he seized her before she had time to escape . 
Wretch ! he cried , do you know me ? Who are you , my lord ? she replied trembling all over . 
I have never seen you before . 
I am he whose house you entered to offer your hypocritical prayers . 
Don't you remember now ? She flung herself on her knees to implore mercy , but he cut her in four pieces . 
There remained only the lady , who was quite ignorant of all that was taking place around her . 
He sought her through the house , and when at last he found her , she nearly fainted with terror at the sight of him . 
I was once , replied she , the wife of an honest merchant , and that old woman , whose wickedness I did not know , used occasionally to visit me . 
Madam , she said to me one day , we have a grand wedding at our house to day . 
If you would do us the honour to be present , I am sure you would enjoy yourself . 
I allowed myself to be persuaded , put on my richest dress , and took a purse with a hundred pieces of gold . 
Once inside the doors I was kept by force by that dreadful black , and it is now three years that I have been here , to my great grief . 
That horrible black must have amassed great wealth , remarked my brother . 
Such wealth , returned she , that if you succeed in carrying it all away it will make you rich for ever . 
Come and let us see how much there is . 
She led Alnaschar into a chamber filled with coffers packed with gold , which he gazed at with an admiration he was powerless to conceal . 
Go , she said , and bring men to carry them away . 
My brother did not wait to be told twice , and hurried out into the streets , where he soon collected ten men . 
They all came back to the house , but what was his surprise to find the door open , and the room with the chests of gold quite empty . 
The lady had been cleverer than himself , and had made the best use of her time . 
However , he tried to console himself by removing all the beautiful furniture , which more than made up for the five hundred gold pieces he had lost . 
When they had explained to the official the cause of complaint , he asked Alnaschar where he had obtained all the furniture that he had taken to his house the day before . 
Sir , replied Alnaschar , I am ready to tell you the whole story , but give , I pray you , your word , that I shall run no risk of punishment . 
That I promise , said the judge . 
So my brother began at the beginning and related all his adventures , and how he had avenged himself on those who had betrayed him . 
As to the furniture , he entreated the judge at least to allow him to keep part to make up for the five hundred pieces of gold which had been stolen from him . 
The judge , however , would say nothing about this , and lost no time in sending men to fetch away all that Alnaschar had taken from the house . 
Hearing of his plight , I hurried after him to console him for his misfortunes , and to dress him in my best robe . 
I then brought him back disguised , under cover of night , to my house , where I have since given him all the care I bestow on my other brothers . 
The Story of the Barber's Sixth Brother There now remains for me to relate to you the story of my sixth brother , whose name was Schacabac . 
One day he was passing a splendid mansion , with a crowd of servants lounging in the courtyard . 
He thought that from the appearance of the house it might yield him a rich harvest , so he entered and inquired to whom it belonged . 
My good man , where do you come from ? replied the servant . 
Can't you see for yourself that it can belong to nobody but a Barmecide ? for the Barmecides were famed for their liberality and generosity . 
My brother , hearing this , asked the porters , of whom there were several , if they would give him alms . 
They did not refuse , but told him politely to go in , and speak to the master himself . 
My brother thanked them for their courtesy and entered the building , which was so large that it took him some time to reach the apartments of the Barmecide . 
My lord , he said , you behold in me a poor man who only lives by the help of persons as rich and as generous as you . 
Before he could proceed further , he was stopped by the astonishment shown by the Barmecide . 
My lord , answered my brother , I swear that I have not broken my fast this whole day . 
What , you are dying of hunger ? exclaimed the Barmecide . 
, drew near , and imitated his motion . 
When the Barmecide had done rubbing his hands , he raised his voice , and cried , Set food before us at once , we are very hungry . 
Help yourself as freely as if you were at home ! For a starving man , you seem to have a very small appetite . 
Excuse me , my lord , replied Schacabac , imitating his gestures as before , I really am not losing time , and I do full justice to the repast . 
How do you like this bread ? asked the Barmecide . 
I find it particularly good myself . 
Oh , my lord , answered my brother , who beheld neither meat nor bread , never have I tasted anything so delicious . 
Eat as much as you want , said the Barmecide . 
I bought the woman who makes it for five hundred pieces of gold , so that I might never be without it . 
to be placed on the table , and discussing the merits of each one , the Barmecide declared that having dined so well , they would now proceed to take their wine . 
At this the Barmecide , instead of being angry , began to laugh , and embraced him heartily . 
I have long been seeking , he exclaimed , a man of your description , and henceforth my house shall be yours . 
You have had the good grace to fall in with my humour , and to pretend to eat and to drink when nothing was there . 
Now you shall be rewarded by a really good supper . 
Then he clapped his hands , and all the dishes were brought that they had tasted in imagination before and during the repast , slaves sang and played on various instruments . 
All the while Schacabac was treated by the Barmecide as a familiar friend , and dressed in a garment out of his own wardrobe . 
Twenty years passed by , and my brother was still living with the Barmecide , looking after his house , and managing his affairs . 
At the end of that time his generous benefactor died without heirs , so all his possessions went to the prince . 
Unluckily , the caravan was attacked and pillaged by the Bedouins , and the pilgrims were taken prisoners . 
At length the Bedouin grew tired of tormenting , and sent him on a camel to the top of a high barren mountain , where he left him to take his chance . 
This , continued the barber , is the tale I related to the Caliph , who , when I had finished , burst into fits of laughter . 
Well were you called the Silent , said he no name was ever better deserved . 
But for reasons of my own , which it is not necessary to mention , I desire you to leave the town , and never to come back . 
However , we wished to keep him with us , and share our feast , and we remained at table till the hour of afternoon prayer . 
Then the company broke up , and I went back to work in my shop . 
It was during this interval that the little hunchback , half drunk already , presented himself before me , singing and playing on his drum . 
I took him home , to amuse mg wife , and she invited him to supper . 
While eating some fish , a bone got into his throat , and in spite of all we could do , he died shortly . 
It was all so sudden that we lost our heads , and in order to divert suspicion from ourselves , we carried the body to the house of a Jewish physician . 
He placed it in the chamber of the purveyor , and the purveyor propped it up in the street , where it was thought to have been killed by the merchant . 
This , Sire , is the story which I was obliged to tell to satisfy your highness . 
And as he is in this town , let an usher go with you at once in search of him . 
The usher and the tailor soon returned , bringing with them an old man who must have been at least ninety years of age . 
O Silent One , said the Sultan , I am told that you know many strange stories . 
It is certainly most surprising , cried he , when he had heard it all , but I should like to examine the body . 
He then knelt down , and took the head on his knees , looking at it attentively . 
Suddenly he burst into such loud laughter that he fell right backwards , and when he had recovered himself enough to speak , he turned to the Sultan . 
The man is no more dead than I am , he said watch me . 
As he spoke he drew a small case of medicines from his pocket and rubbed the neck of the hunchback with some ointment made of balsam . 
Next he opened the dead man's mouth , and by the help of a pair of pincers drew the bone from his throat . 
At this the hunch back sneezed , stretched himself and opened his eyes . 
As for the barber , he bestowed on him a large pension , and kept him near his own person . 
The Adventures of Prince Camaralzaman and the Princess Badoura Some twenty days' sail from the coast of Persia lies the isle of the children of Khaledan . 
The island is divided into several provinces , in each of which are large flourishing towns , and the whole forms an important kingdom . 
In fact , he had but one grievance , which was that none of his four wives had given him an heir . 
This distressed him so greatly that one day he confided his grief to the grand vizir , who , being a wise counsellor , said Such matters are indeed beyond human aid . 
Whilst he was still a youth the king , his father , who loved him dearly , had some thoughts of abdicating in his favour . 
As usual he talked over his plans with his grand vizir , who , though he did not approve the idea , would not state all his objections . 
Sire , he replied , the prince is still very young for the cares of state . 
Your Majesty fears his growing idle and careless , and doubtless you are right . 
I have sent for you , said the king , to say that I wish you to marry . 
What do you think about it ? The prince was so much overcome by these words that he remained silent for some time . 
At length he said Sire , I beg you to pardon me if I am unable to reply as you might wish . 
I certainly did not expect such a proposal as I am still so young , and I confess that the idea of marrying is very distasteful to me . 
Possibly I may not always be in this mind , but I certainly feel that it will require some time to induce me to take the step which your Majesty desires . 
This answer greatly distressed the king , who was sincerely grieved by his objection to marriage . 
From this time Prince Camaralzaman was admitted to the royal council , and the king showed him every mark of favour . 
This answer much distressed the king , who again confided his trouble to his vizir . 
I have followed your advice , he said but Camaralzaman declines to marry , and is more obstinate than ever . 
Sire , replied the vizir , much is gained by patience , and your Majesty might regret any violence . 
The Sultan ardently desired to see his son married at once , but he yielded to the vizir's arguments and decided to wait . 
She asked what reasons he could have for his objections to obey . 
Madam , replied the prince , I make no doubt that there are as many good , virtuous , sweet , and amiable women as there are others very much the reverse . 
Would that all were like you ! But what revolts me is the idea of marrying a woman without knowing anything at all about her . 
My father will ask the hand of the daughter of some neighbouring sovereign , who will give his consent to our union . 
Be she fair or frightful , clever or stupid , good or bad , I must marry her , and am left no choice in the matter . 
These and similar conversations proved to the Sultan how useless it was to argue with his son , and the year elapsed without bringing any change in the prince's ideas . 
Camaralzaman , pleased to be free to enjoy his books , showed himself very indifferent to his sentence . 
Towards midnight Maimoune floated lightly up from the well , intending , according to her usual habit , to roam about the upper world as curiosity or accident might prompt . 
The prince lay with his face half hidden by the coverlet . 
Maimoune lifted it a little and beheld the most beautiful youth she had ever seen . 
What a marvel of beauty he must be when his eyes are open ! she thought . 
As she entered the middle region she heard the sound of great wings coming towards her , and shortly met one of the race of bad genii . 
This genie , whose name was Danhasch , recognised Maimoune with terror , for he knew the supremacy which her goodness gave her over him . 
Accursed genie ! replied Maimoune , what harm can you do me ? But I will grant your power and give the promise you ask . 
And now tell me what you have seen and done to night . 
Fair lady , said Danhasch , you meet me at the right moment to hear something really interesting . 
I must tell you that I come from the furthest end of China , which is one of the largest and most powerful kingdoms in the world . 
But in order to give her variety in her confinement he has built her seven palaces such as have never been seen before . 
They are all most sumptuously furnished , whilst the gardens surrounding them are laid out with exquisite taste . 
In fact , neither trouble nor cost has been spared to make this retreat agreeable to the princess . 
The report of her wonderful beauty has spread far and wide , and many powerful kings have sent embassies to ask her hand in marriage . 
Sire , said the princess to her father , you wish me to marry , and I know you desire to please me , for which I am very grateful . 
At last an embassy came from a king so rich and powerful that the King of China felt constrained to urge this suit on his daughter . 
He told her how important such an alliance would be , and pressed her to consent . 
In fact , he pressed her so persistingly that the princess at length lost her temper and quite forgot the respect due to her father . 
Sire , cried she angrily , do not speak further of this or any other marriage or I will plunge this dagger in my breast and so escape from all these importunities . 
The king of China was extremely indignant with his daughter and replied You have lost your senses and you must be treated accordingly . 
Fair Maimoune , continued Danhasch , this is the present state of affairs . 
I don't like to contradict a lady , said Danhasch , but you must really permit me to doubt any mortal being as beautiful as my princess . 
Hold your tongue , cried Maimoune . 
I repeat that is impossible . 
There is no need for that , retorted Maimoune we can satisfy ourselves in another way . 
Bring your princess here and lay her down beside my prince . 
We can then compare them at leisure , and decide which is in the right . 
In an incredibly short time Danhasch returned , bearing the sleeping princess . 
Maimoune led him to the prince's room , and the rival beauty was placed beside him . 
When the prince and princess lay thus side by side , an animated dispute as to their respective charms arose between the fairy and the genius . 
Danhasch began by saying Now you see that my princess is more beautiful than your prince . 
Can you doubt any longer ? Doubt ! Of course I do ! exclaimed Maimoune . 
Why , you must be blind not to see how much my prince excels your princess . 
I do not deny that your princess is very handsome , but only look and you must own that I am in the right . 
By no means , replied Maimoune . 
I have no idea of being under any obligation to an accursed genius like you . 
I refer the matter to an umpire , and shall expect you to submit to his verdict . 
As soon as he beheld Maimoune he threw himself at her feet and asked her commands . 
Rise , Caschcasch , said she . 
I summoned you to judge between me and Danhasch . 
Glance at that couch , and say without any partiality whether you think the youth or the maiden lying there the more beautiful . 
Caschcasch looked at the prince and princess with every token of surprise and admiration . 
This advice pleased Maimoune and Danhasch , and the fairy at once transformed herself into the shape of a gnat and settling on Camaralzaman's throat stung him so sharply that he awoke . 
As he did so his eyes fell on the Princess of China . 
Surprised at finding a lady so near him , he raised himself on one arm to look at her . 
The youth and beauty of the princess at once awoke a feeling to which his heart had as yet been a stranger , and he could not restrain his delight . 
How , fair lady ! he cried , you do not wake at the signs of Camaralzaman's love ? Be you who you may , he is not unworthy of you . 
At all events , he thought , I will take this ring as a remembrance of her . 
So saying he drew off a fine ring which the princess wore on her finger , and replaced it by one of his own . 
After which he lay down again and was soon fast asleep . 
Then Danhasch , in his turn , took the form of a gnat and bit the princess on her lip . 
She started up , and was not a little amazed at seeing a young man beside her . 
From surprise she soon passed to admiration , and then to delight on perceiving how handsome and fascinating he was . 
Why , cried she , was it you my father wished me to marry ? How unlucky that I did not know sooner ! I should not have made him so angry . 
But wake up ! wake up ! for I know I shall love you with all my heart . 
So saying she shook Camaralzaman so violently that nothing but the spells of Maimoune could have prevented his waking . 
Oh ! cried the princess . 
Why are you so drowsy ? So saying she took his hand and noticed her own ring on his finger , which made her wonder still more . 
But as he still remained in a profound slumber she pressed a kiss on his cheek and soon fell fast asleep too . 
Then Maimoune turning to the genie said Well , are you satisfied that my prince surpasses your princess ? Another time pray believe me when I assert anything . 
Then turning to Caschcasch My thanks to you , and now do you and Danhasch bear the princess back to her own home . 
The two genii hastened to obey , and Maimoune returned to her well . 
Here he found the king talking to the grand vizir of all the anxiety his son had caused him . 
The slave was admitted at once and cried Alas , Sire ! I bring sad news to your Majesty . 
There can be no doubt that the prince has completely lost his senses . 
He declares that he saw a lady sleeping on his couch last night , and the state you see me in proves how violent contradiction makes him . 
He then gave a minute account of all the prince had said and done . 
After the first exchange of greetings the vizir said I feel really very angry with your slave for alarming his Majesty by the news he brought him . 
What news ? asked the prince . 
Ah ! replied the vizir , something absurd , I feel sure , seeing how I find you . 
At last , losing patience , he seized the vizir by the beard and loaded him with blows . 
Stop , Prince , cried the unhappy vizir , stay and hear what I have to say . 
The prince , whose arm was getting tired , paused . 
I confess , Prince , said the vizir , that there is some foundation for what you say . 
But you know well that a minister has to carry out his master's orders . 
Allow me to go and to take to the king any message you may choose to send . 
Very well , said the prince then go and tell him that I consent to marry the lady whom he sent or brought here last night . 
Be quick and bring me back his answer . 
The vizir bowed to the ground and hastened to leave the room and tower . 
The king , much distressed , determined to clear up the matter himself , and , ordering the vizir to follow him , set out to visit his son . 
The prince received his father with profound respect , and the king , making him sit beside him , asked him several questions , to which Camaralzaman replied with much good sense . 
At last the king said My son , pray tell me about the lady who , it is said , was in your room last night . 
Sire , replied the prince , pray do not increase my distress in this matter , but rather make me happy by giving her to me in marriage . 
However much I may have objected to matrimony formerly , the sight of this lovely girl has overcome all my prejudices , and I will gratefully receive her from your hands . 
He then desired the prince to relate the whole story to him . 
Camaralzaman did so at great length , showed the ring , and implored his father to help to find the bride he so ardently desired . 
The whole affair is indeed mysterious . 
Come , my dear son , let us wait together for happier days . 
Whilst all this was happening in the capital of Schahzaman the two genii had carefully borne the Princess of China back to her own palace and replaced her in bed . 
On waking next morning she first turned from one side to another and then , finding herself alone , called loudly for her women . 
Why , continued the princess , the most charming and beautiful young man lay sleeping beside me last night . 
I did my utmost to wake him , but in vain . 
Your Royal Highness wishes to make game of us , said the nurse . 
Is it your pleasure to rise ? I am quite in earnest , persisted the princess , and I want to know where he is . 
But , Princess , expostulated the nurse , we left you quite alone last night , and we have seen no one enter your room since then . 
The nurse had no little trouble in escaping , and hurried off to the queen , to whom she related the whole story with tears in her eyes . 
You see , madam , she concluded , that the princess must be out of her mind . 
If only you will come and see her , you will be able to judge for yourself . 
The queen hurried to her daughter's apartments , and after tenderly embracing her , asked her why she had treated her nurse so badly . 
You must know where he is , so pray send for him . 
The king himself came to hear the rights of the matter , but the princess only persisted in her story , and as a proof showed the ring on her finger . 
You are welcome to try , said the king , but I make one condition , which is , that should you fail you will lose your life . 
You need not be shocked , said the king this is one of my emirs who asks your hand in marriage . 
Sire , replied the princess , this is not the one you gave me before and whose ring I wear . 
Permit me to say that I can accept no other . 
This was the first of many suitors for the princess whose inability to cure her cost them their lives . 
Now it happened that after things had been going on in this way for some time the nurse's son Marzavan returned from his travels . 
He had been in many countries and learnt many things , including astrology . 
Needless to say that one of the first things his mother told him was the sad condition of the princess , his foster sister . 
Marzavan asked if she could not manage to let him see the princess without the king's knowledge . 
After some consideration his mother consented , and even persuaded the eunuch on guard to make no objection to Marzavan's entering the royal apartment . 
The princess was delighted to see her foster brother again , and after some conversation she confided to him all her history and the cause of her imprisonment . 
Marzavan listened with downcast eyes and the utmost attention . 
When she had finished speaking he said , If what you tell me , Princess , is indeed the case , I do not despair of finding comfort for you . 
Take patience yet a little longer . 
I will set out at once to explore other countries , and when you hear of my return be sure that he for whom you sigh is not far off . 
So saying , he took his leave and started next morning on his travels . 
Marzavan was rejoiced , and set out at once for Prince Camaralzaman's residence . 
On hearing this Marzavan rejoiced inwardly , for he felt sure that he had at last discovered the object of the Princess Badoura's infatuation . 
However , he said nothing , but begged to be allowed to see the prince . 
On entering the royal apartment the first thing which struck him was the prince himself , who lay stretched out on his bed with his eyes closed . 
These words produced a great effect on the prince , who was so much cheered by the hopes held out that he declared he felt able to get up and be dressed . 
The king was overjoyed at the result of Marzavan's interview , and ordered public rejoicings in honour of the prince's recovery . 
I am so impatient to see my beloved princess once more that I am sure I shall fall ill again if we do not start soon . 
The one obstacle is my father's tender care of me , for , as you may have noticed , he cannot bear me out of his sight . 
Prince , replied Marzavan , I have already thought over the matter , and this is what seems to me the best plan . 
You have not been out of doors since my arrival . 
Ask the king's permission to go with me for two or three days' hunting , and when he has given leave order two good horses to be held ready for each of us . 
Leave all the rest to me . 
Next morning Prince Camaralzaman and Marzavan were off betimes , attended by two grooms leading the two extra horses . 
They hunted a little by the way , but took care to get as far from the towns as possible . 
At night fall they reached an inn , where they supped and slept till midnight . 
Then Marzavan awoke and roused the prince without disturbing anyone else . 
He begged the prince to give him the coat he had been wearing and to put on another which they had brought with them . 
They mounted their second horses , and Marzavan led one of the grooms' horses by the bridle . 
By daybreak our travellers found themselves where four cross roads met in the middle of the forest . 
Your father will doubtless be plunged in the deepest grief , he went on , but his joy at your return will be all the greater . 
The prince and his companion now continued their journey by land and sea , and as they had brought plenty of money to defray their expenses they met with no needless delays . 
At length they reached the capital of China , where they spent three days in a suitable lodging to recover from their fatigues . 
During this time Marzavan had an astrologer's dress prepared for the prince . 
It was some little time since anyone had presented himself to run the terrible risk involved in attempting to cure the princess , and a crowd soon gathered round the prince . 
On perceiving his youth , good looks , and distinguished bearing , everyone felt pity for him . 
But the prince remained firm , and only repeated his cry with greater assurance , to the horror of the crowd . 
But Camaralzaman politely yet firmly persisted in his intentions , and at length the king desired the eunuch who had the guard of the princess's apartments to conduct the astrologer to her presence . 
The eunuch led the way through long passages , and Camaralzaman followed rapidly , in haste to reach the object of his desires . 
At last they came to a large hall which was the ante room to the princess's chamber , and here Camaralzaman said to the eunuch Now you shall choose . 
Your fame will be equally great . 
He awaits your reply in your ante room . 
The princess took the note and opened it with languid indifference . 
But no sooner did she see her ring than , barely glancing at the writing , she rose hastily and with one bound reached the doorway and pushed back the hangings . 
The nurse , who had hastened after her charge , drew them back to the inner room , where the princess restored her ring to Camaralzaman . 
Take it back , she said , I could not keep it without returning yours to you , and I am resolved to wear that as long as I live . 
Meantime the eunuch had hastened back to the king . 
Sire , he cried , all the former doctors and astrologers were mere quacks . 
This man has cured the princess without even seeing her . 
But , if I am not much mistaken , your condition is above what you appear to be . 
The prince thanked the king in the warmest and most respectful terms , and added As regards my person , your Majesty has rightly guessed that I am not an astrologer . 
It is but a disguise which I assumed in order to merit your illustrious alliance . 
I am myself a prince , my name is Camaralzaman , and my father is Schahzaman , King of the Isles of the Children of Khaledan . 
He then told his whole history , including the extraordinary manner of his first seeing and loving the Princess Badoura . 
When he had finished the king exclaimed So remarkable a story must not be lost to posterity . 
It shall be inscribed in the archives of my kingdom and published everywhere abroad . 
The wedding took place next day amidst great pomp and rejoicings . 
Marzavan was not forgotten , but was given a lucrative post at court , with a promise of further advancement . 
The prince and princess were now entirely happy , and months slipped by unconsciously in the enjoyment of each other's society . 
The prince woke with such a groan as to startle the princess , who asked what was the matter . 
Ah ! cried the prince , at this very moment my father is perhaps no more ! and he told his dream . 
It is that you will allow us both to visit my father in law King Schahzaman . 
The princess brought this good news to her husband , who thanked her tenderly for this fresh proof of her affection . 
The prince and princess journeyed on , and at the end of a month reached a huge meadow interspersed with clumps of big trees which cast a most pleasant shade . 
As the heat was great , Camaralzaman thought it well to encamp in this cool spot . 
When the camp was all in order the prince entered the tent and , seeing the princess asleep , he sat down near her without speaking . 
He touched it and felt something hard within . 
Curious as to what this might be , he opened the pouch and found a cornelian engraved with various figures and strange characters . 
This cornelian must be something very precious , thought he , or my wife would not wear it on her person with so much care . 
In truth it was a talisman which the Queen of China had given her daughter , telling her it would ensure her happiness as long as she carried it about her . 
The better to examine the stone the prince stepped to the open doorway of the tent . 
As he stood there holding it in the open palm of his hand , a bird suddenly swooped down , picked the stone up in its beak and flew away with it . 
Prince Camaralzaman advanced , hoping the bird would drop it , but as soon as he approached the thief fluttered on a little further still . 
He continued his pursuit till the bird suddenly swallowed the stone and took a longer flight than before . 
The prince then hoped to kill it with a stone , but the more hotly he pursued the further flew the bird . 
The prince in despair at all his useless trouble began to think whether he had better return to the camp . 
Overwhelmed by hunger , thirst , fatigue and sleep , he ended by spending the night at the foot of the tree . 
In this fashion he spent ten days , following the bird all day and spending the night at the foot of a tree , whilst it roosted on the topmost bough . 
Much cast down , he entered the town , which was built near the sea and had a fine harbour . 
Camaralzaman did as he was bid , and inquired why this precaution was taken . 
It seems almost a miracle that has led you to this house , and I am indeed glad that you have found a place of safety . 
Camaralzaman warmly thanked the kind old man for offering him shelter , and was about to say more , but the gardener interrupted him with Leave compliments alone . 
You are weary and must be hungry . 
Come in , eat , and rest . 
So saying he led the prince into his cottage , and after satisfying his hunger begged to learn the cause of his arrival . 
Camaralzaman told him all without disguise , and ended by inquiring the shortest way to his father's capital . 
For , added he , if I tried to rejoin the princess , how should I find her after eleven days' separation . 
Perhaps , indeed , she may be no longer alive ! At this terrible thought he burst into tears . 
If only you had arrived a few days sooner , he said , you might have embarked at once . 
Prince Camaralzaman thought himself lucky to find some place of refuge , and gladly accepted the gardener's offer . 
He spent his days working in the garden , and his nights thinking of and sighing for his beloved wife . 
Let us now see what had become during this time of the Princess Badoura . 
On first waking she was much surprised not to find the prince near her . 
She at once concluded that her husband had taken it and would shortly bring it back . 
She waited for him till evening rather impatiently , and wondering what could have kept him from her so long . 
When night came without him she felt in despair and abused the talisman and its maker roundly . 
In spite of her grief and anxiety however , she did not lose her presence of mind , but decided on a courageous , though very unusual step . 
Only the princess and her women knew of Camaralzaman's disappearance , for the rest of the party were sleeping or resting in their tents . 
In this disguise she looked so like the prince that when she gave orders next morning to break up the camp and continue the journey no one suspected the change . 
She made one of her women enter her litter , whilst she herself mounted on horseback and the march began . 
Instead , therefore , of returning to your own country , take my daughter and my crown and stay with us . 
I shall feel that I have a worthy successor , and shall cheerfully retire from the fatigues of government . 
The king's offer was naturally rather embarrassing to the Princess Badoura . 
But , sire , I can only accept such an alliance if you give me your promise to assist me with your counsels . 
She also told her women , and bade them keep her secret well . 
was conducted to the palace of the Princess Badoura . 
Accordingly , as soon as they were alone she took Haiatelnefous by the hand and said Princess , I have a secret to tell you , and must throw myself on your mercy . 
She then related her whole history , and at its close Haiatelnefous embraced her warmly , and assured her of her entire sympathy and affection . 
Whilst these things were passing in the Ebony Island Prince Camaralzaman continued to find shelter in the gardeners cottage in the town of the idolaters . 
As he walked up and down he was suddenly disturbed in his reverie by the noise two large birds were making in a tree . 
Almost immediately two other larger birds , who had been watching the duel , flew up and alighted , one at the head and the other at the feet of the dead bird . 
They stood there some time sadly shaking their heads , and then dug up a grave with their claws in which they buried him . 
He picked it up , and what was his surprise when he recognised the Princess Badoura's talisman which had been the cause of many misfortunes . 
It would be impossible to describe his joy he kissed the talisman repeatedly , wrapped it up , and carefully tied it round his arm . 
The gardener told him to cut down an old fruit tree which had quite died away , and Camaralzaman took an axe and fell to vigorously . 
As he was hacking at one of the roots the axe struck on something hard . 
On pushing away the earth he discovered a large slab of bronze , under which was disclosed a staircase with ten steps . 
He went down them and found himself in a roomy kind of cave in which stood fifty large bronze jars , each with a cover on it . 
The prince uncovered one after another , and found them all filled with gold dust . 
Delighted with his discovery he left the cave , replaced the slab , and having finished cutting down the tree waited for the gardener's return . 
He had gone therefore to inquire , and came back with good news beaming in his face . 
My son , said he , rejoice and hold yourself ready to start in three days' time . 
Follow me and see the good fortune which has befallen you . 
What do you mean ? asked the gardener . 
Do you imagine that I should appropriate this treasure ? It is yours , and I have no right whatever to it . 
For the last eighty years I have dug up the ground here without discovering anything . 
This treasure comes just at the right time , when you are about to return to your own country , where you will make good use of it . 
But the prince would not hear of this suggestion , and finally after much discussion they agreed to divide the gold . 
There are no olives in the Ebony Island , and those imported from here fetch a high price . 
As you know , I have a good stock of the olives which grew in this garden . 
Now you must take fifty jars , fill each half full of gold dust and fill them up with the olives . 
We will then have them taken on board ship when you embark . 
When night came the jars were all ready , and the prince and his host went to bed . 
Whether in consequence of his great age , or of the fatigues and excitement of the previous day , I do not know , but the gardener passed a very bad night . 
He was worse next day , and by the morning of the third day was dangerously ill . 
At daybreak the ship's captain and some of his sailors knocked at the garden door and asked for the passenger who was to embark . 
I am he , said Camaralzaman , who had opened the door . 
The sailors did as he asked , and the captain before leaving charged Camaralzaman to lose no time , as the wind was fair , and he wished to set sail at once . 
As soon as they were gone the prince returned to the cottage to bid farewell to his old friend , and to thank him once more for all his kindness . 
But the old man was at his last gasp , and had barely murmured his confession of faith when he expired . 
Camaralzaman was obliged to stay and pay him the last offices , so having dug a grave in the garden he wrapped the kind old man up and buried him . 
It may well be believed that the prince felt in despair at this fresh misfortune , which obliged him to spend another year in a strange and distasteful country . 
Moreover , he had once more lost the Princess Badoura's talisman , which he feared he might never see again . 
There was nothing left for him but to hire the garden as the old man had done , and to live on in the cottage . 
Whilst the prince was settling down to this second year of toil and privation , the ship made a rapid voyage and arrived safely at the Ebony Island . 
She sent for him and asked many questions as to his country , voyage , what passengers he had , and what his vessel was laden with . 
As soon as he mentioned olives , the princess , who was very partial to them , exclaimed I will take all you have on board . 
Have them unloaded and we will make our bargain at once , and tell the other merchants to let me see all their best wares before showing them to other people . 
Sire , replied the captain , I have on board fifty very large pots of olives . 
They belong to a merchant who was left behind , as in spite of waiting for him he delayed so long that I was obliged to set sail without him . 
Never mind , said the princess , unload them all the same , and we will arrange the price . 
The captain accordingly sent his boat off to the ship and it soon returned laden with the fifty pots of olives . 
The princess asked what they might be worth . 
Sire , replied the captain , the merchant is very poor . 
Your Majesty will not overpay him if you give him a thousand pieces of silver . 
So saying she gave orders for the payment and returned to the palace , having the jars carried before her . 
What an adventure ! how extraordinary ! she cried . 
Then she had the other jars opened , and was more and more surprised to find the olives in each jar mixed with gold dust . 
But when at length her talisman was discovered in one of the jars her emotion was so great that she fainted away . 
The Princess Haiatelnefous and her women hastened to restore her , and as soon as she recovered consciousness she covered the precious talisman with kisses . 
Then , dismissing the attendants , she said to her friend You will have guessed , my dear , that it was the sight of this talisman which has moved me so deeply . 
This was the cause of my separation from my dear husband , and now , I am convinced , it will be the means of our reunion . 
As soon as it was light next day the Princess Badoura sent for the captain , and made further inquiries about the merchant who owned the olive jars she had bought . 
In reply the captain told her all he knew of the place where the young man lived , and how , after engaging his passage , he came to be left behind . 
If that is the case , said the princess , you must set sail at once and go back for him . 
He is a debtor of mine and must be brought here at once , or I will confiscate all your merchandise . 
Go at once and obey my orders . 
The captain had no choice but to do as he was bid , so hastily provisioning his ship he started that same evening on his return voyage . 
No sooner were they on board than they weighed anchor and set sail . 
Camaralzaman , who had kept silence till then , now asked the captain the reason for this abduction . 
Are you not a debtor of the King of the Ebony Island ? asked the captain . 
I ? Why , I never even heard of him before , and never set foot in his kingdom ! was the answer . 
Well , you must know better than I , said the captain . 
You will soon see him now , and meantime be content where you are and have patience . 
Directly the Princess Badoura saw the prince she recognised him in spite of his shabby clothes . 
She longed to throw herself on his neck , but restrained herself , feeling it was better for them both that she should play her part a little longer . 
She therefore desired one of her officers to take care of him and to treat him well . 
Next morning she ordered the prince to be taken to the bath and clothed in a manner suitable to an emir or governor of a province . 
He was then introduced to the council , where his good looks and grand air drew the attention of all on him . 
Camaralzaman was much surprised at hearing the king whom he never suspected of being a woman in disguise asserting their acquaintance , for he felt sure he had never seen her before . 
I can but assure you that I will do all in my power to prove myself worthy of it . 
On leaving the council the prince was conducted to a splendid house which had been prepared for him , where he found a full establishment and well filled stables at his orders . 
On entering his study his steward presented him with a coffer filled with gold pieces for his current expenses . 
He felt more and more puzzled by such good fortune , and little guessed that the Princess of China was the cause of it . 
After a few days the Princess Badoura promoted Camaralzaman to the post of grand treasurer , an office which he filled with so much integrity and benevolence as to win universal esteem . 
He would now have thought himself the happiest of men had it not been for that separation which he never ceased to bewail . 
As you are universally well informed , you can perhaps tell me what is its use . 
Camaralzaman took the talisman and , holding it to the light , cried with surprise , Sire , you ask me the use of this talisman . 
Alas ! hitherto it has been only a source of misfortune to me , being the cause of my separation from the one I love best on earth . 
The story is so sad and strange that I am sure your Majesty will be touched by it if you will permit me to tell it you . 
I will hear it some other time , replied the princess . 
Meanwhile I fancy it is not quite unknown to me . 
Let us sit down , and I will tell you all about it . 
When she had done she asked to hear the prince's story , and in this manner they spent most of the night . 
Next morning the princess resumed her woman's clothes , and as soon as she was ready she desired the chief eunuch to beg King Armanos to come to her apartments . 
When the king arrived great was his surprise at finding a strange lady in company of the grand treasurer who had no actual right to enter the private apartment . 
Seating himself he asked for the king . 
The king consented to listen , and did so with marked surprise . 
I gladly yield to her the precedence and title of Queen in recognition of the debt of gratitude which I owe her . 
Sire , replied Camaralzaman , I can refuse your Majesty nothing . 
The two queens lived in true sisterly harmony together , and after a time each presented King Camaralzaman with a son , whose births were celebrated throughout the kingdom with the utmost rejoicing . 
Noureddin and the Fair Persian Balsora was the capital of a kingdom long tributary to the caliph . 
During the time of the Caliph Haroun al Raschid the king of Balsora , who was his cousin , was called Zinebi . 
Not thinking one vizir enough for the administration of his estates he had two , named Khacan and Saouy . 
Khacan was kind , generous , and liberal , and took pleasure in obliging , as far as in him lay , those who had business with him . 
Throughout the entire kingdom there was no one who did not esteem and praise him as he deserved . 
What made him particularly detested was the great aversion he had to Khacan , of whom he never ceased to speak evil to the king . 
One day , while the king amused himself talking with his two vizirs and other members of the council , the conversation turned on female slaves . 
The king not only declared himself to be of this opinion , but charged Khacan to procure him a slave who should fulfil all these conditions . 
Saouy , answered the king , you seem to find that a very great sum . 
For you it may be so , but not for me . 
And forthwith he ordered his grand treasurer , who was present , to send , gold pieces to Khacan for the purchase of the slave . 
They promised to do their utmost , and no day passed that they did not bring a slave for his inspection but none was found without some defect . 
Khacan , overjoyed at this news , gave orders that the slave should be brought for his inspection on his return from the palace . 
The dealer appearing at the appointed hour , Khacan found the slave beautiful beyond his expectations , and immediately gave her the name of The Fair Persian . 
Her price , however , is too high . 
Sir , replied the merchant , I should esteem it an honour to present her to his Majesty , did it become a merchant to do such a thing . 
I ask no more than the sum it has cost me to make her such as she is . 
Khacan thanked the merchant for his advice , and determined to follow it . 
I have , however , to warn you of one thing . 
I have a son , who , though not wanting in sense , is young , foolish , and headstrong , and I charge you to keep him at a distance . 
The Persian thanked him for his advice , and promised to profit by it . 
Noureddin for so the vizir's son was named went freely in and out of his mother's apartments . 
He was young , well made and agreeable , and had the gift of charming all with whom he came in contact . 
The Persian was equally captivated by Noureddin , and said to herself The vizir does me too great honour in buying me for the king . 
I should esteem myself very happy if he would give me to his son . 
Noureddin availed himself of every opportunity to gaze upon her beauty , to talk and laugh with her , and never would have left her side if his mother had not forced him . 
Her toilet completed , the beautiful Persian came to present herself to the vizir's wife , who hardly recognised her , so greatly was her beauty increased . 
If it is the truth they tell me , and not flattery , it is to you I owe the transformation . 
My daughter , answered the vizir's wife , they do not flatter you . 
I myself hardly recognised you . 
The improvement is not due to the dress alone , but largely to the beautifying effects of the bath . 
I am so struck by its results , that I would try it on myself . 
Acting forthwith on this decision she ordered two little slaves during her absence to watch over the beautiful Persian , and not to allow Noureddin to enter should he come . 
She had no sooner gone than he arrived , and not finding his mother in her apartment , would have sought her in that of the Persian . 
The two little slaves barred the entrance , saying that his mother had given orders that he was not to be admitted . 
Taking each by an arm , he put them out of the anteroom , and shut the door . 
Then they rushed to the bath , informing their mistress with shrieks and tears that Noureddin had driven them away by force and gone in . 
Much astonished to see the vizir's wife enter in tears , the Persian asked what misfortune had happened . 
I believed him , and so great is my affection for Noureddin that I would willingly pass my life with him . 
So saying , she wept bitterly , and all her slaves wept with her . 
Khacan , entering shortly after this , was much astonished to find his wife and her slaves in tears , and the beautiful Persian greatly perturbed . 
He inquired the cause , but for some time no answer was forthcoming . 
When his wife was at length sufficiently calm to inform him of what had happened , his rage and mortification knew no bounds . 
Wringing his hands and rending his beard , he exclaimed Wretched son ! thou destroyest not only thyself but thy father . 
The king will shed not only thy blood but mine . 
His wife tried to console him , saying Do not torment thyself . 
With the sale of my jewels I will obtain , gold pieces , and with this sum you will buy another slave . 
Do not suppose , replied her husband , that it is the loss of the money that affects me . 
My honour is at stake , and that is more precious to me than all my wealth . 
You know that Saouy is my mortal enemy . 
He will relate all this to the king , and you will see the consequences that will ensue . 
My lord , said his wife , I am quite aware of Saouy's baseness , and that he is capable of playing you this malicious trick . 
Reassure yourself , and send to the dealers , saying that you are not satisfied , and wish them to find you another slave . 
This advice appearing reasonable , Khacan decided to follow it , but his wrath against his son did not abate . 
His mother , though knowing very well that he returned to the house every evening , dare not ask her husband to pardon him . 
He will be sufficiently punished , answered the lady , if you do as I suggest . 
In the evening , when he returns home , lie in wait for him and pretend that you will slay him . 
Khacan agreed to follow this plan , and everything took place as arranged . 
On Noureddin's return Khacan pretended to be about to slay him , but yielding to his wife's intercession , said to his son You owe your life to your mother . 
Noureddin , not hoping for so great indulgence , thanked his father , and vowed to do as he desired . 
More than a year after these events the minister took a chill , leaving the bath while still heated to go out on important business . 
This resulted in inflammation of the lungs , which rapidly increased . 
The vizir , feeling that his end was at hand , sent for Noureddin , and charged him with his dying breath never to part with the beautiful Persian . 
Shortly afterwards he expired , leaving universal regret throughout the kingdom rich and poor alike followed him to the grave . 
Noureddin showed every mark of the deepest grief at his father's death , and for long refused to see any one . 
At length a day came when , one of his friends being admitted , urged him strongly to be consoled , and to resume his former place in society . 
Sometimes the fair Persian consented to appear at these festivities , but she disapproved of this lavish expenditure , and did not scruple to warn Noureddin of the probable consequences . 
What added to the confusion in his affairs was that he refused to look into his accounts with his steward , sending him away every time he appeared with his book . 
See only that I live well , he said , and do not disturb me about anything else . 
In vain the Persian protested against the wrong he did himself he continued to scatter with the same lavish hand . 
Throughout one entire year Noureddin did nothing but amuse himself , and dissipate the wealth his father had taken such pains to acquire . 
The year had barely elapsed , when one day , as they sat at table , there came a knock at the door . 
The slaves having been sent away , Noureddin went to open it himself . 
One of his friends had risen at the same time , but Noureddin was before him , and finding the intruder to be the steward , he went out and closed the door . 
Nothing remains of the sums you gave me for your expenses , and all other sources of income are also at end , having been transferred by you to others . 
If you wish me to remain in your service , furnish me with the necessary funds , else I must withdraw . 
So great was Noureddin's consternation that he had not a word to say in reply . 
The friend , who had been listening behind the curtain , immediately hastened to communicate the news to the rest of the company . 
If this is so , they said , we must cease to come here . 
Noureddin re entering at that moment , they plainly saw , in spite of his efforts to dissemble , that what they had heard was the truth . 
One by one they rose , and each with a different excuse left the room , till presently he found himself alone , though little suspecting the resolution his friends had taken . 
Then , seeing the beautiful Persian , he confided to her the statement of the steward , with many expressions of regret for his own carelessness . 
To morrow I will go to them , and amongst them they will lend me a sum sufficient to start in some business . 
Accordingly next morning early Noureddin went to seek his ten friends , who all lived in the same street . 
Knocking at the door of the first and chief , the slave who opened it left him to wait in a hall while he announced his visit to his master . 
Noureddin ! he heard him exclaim quite audibly . 
Tell him , every time he calls , that I am not at home . 
The same thing happened at the second door , and also at the third , and so on with all the ten . 
Noureddin , much mortified , recognised too late that he had confided in false friends , who abandoned him in his hour of need . 
Overwhelmed with grief , he sought consolation from the beautiful Persian . 
Alas , my lord , she said , at last you are convinced of the truth of what I foretold . 
There is now no other resource left but to sell your slaves and your furniture . 
Finally this resource also came to an end , and again he sought counsel from the beautiful Persian . 
Do not therefore hesitate to sell me , and with the money you obtain go and establish yourself in business in some distant town . 
Charming Persian , answered Noureddin , how could I be guilty of such baseness ? I would die rather than part from you whom I love better than my life . 
As soon as they saw her they agreed that less than , gold pieces could not be asked . 
Now it was not the custom to show a slave to a private bidder , but as no one dared to disobey the vizir his request was granted . 
Hagi Hassan then sought Noureddin , and told him that his slave was going far below her value , and that if Saouy bought her he was capable of not paying the money . 
When I present her to Saouy as if with your consent you must step in , and with blows begin to lead her away . 
Noureddin did as Hagi Hassan advised , to the great wrath of Saouy , who riding straight at him endeavoured to take the beautiful Persian from him by force . 
While there I heard a slave being offered for , pieces . 
This is the identical slave , whom instead of bringing to your Majesty he gave to his own son . 
Since the death of his father this Noureddin has run through his entire fortune , has sold all his possessions , and is now reduced to selling the slave . 
Calling him to me , I said Noureddin , I will give you , gold pieces for your slave , whom I will present to the king . 
I will interest him at the same time in your behalf , and this will be worth much more to you than what extra money you might obtain from the merchants . 
Bad old man , he exclaimed , rather than sell my slave to you I would give her to a Jew . 
But , Noureddin , I remonstrated , you do not consider that in speaking thus you wrong the king , to whom your father owed everything . 
This remonstrance only irritated him the more . 
Throwing himself on me like a madman , he tore me from my horse , beat me to his heart's content , and left me in the state your Majesty sees . 
So saying Saouy turned aside his head and wept bitterly . 
The king's wrath was kindled against Noureddin . 
Then , presenting him with forty gold pieces , he disappeared before Noureddin had time to thank him . 
As soon , then , as the fair Persian had put on her veil they fled together , and had the good fortune to get out of the town without being observed . 
At the mouth of the Euphrates they found a ship just about to start for Bagdad . 
They embarked , and immediately the anchor was raised and they set sail . 
Meanwhile Noureddin and the fair Persian had safely reached Bagdad . 
When the vessel had come to an anchor they paid five gold pieces for their passage and went ashore . 
Never having been in Bagdad before , they did not know where to seek a lodging . 
Wandering along the banks of the Tigris , they skirted a garden enclosed by a high wall . 
The gate was shut , but in front of it was an open vestibule with a sofa on either side . 
Here , said Noureddin , let us pass the night , and reclining on the sofas they soon fell asleep . 
Now this garden belonged to the Caliph . 
In the middle of it was a vast pavilion , whose superb saloon had eighty windows , each window having a lustre , lit solely when the Caliph spent the evening there . 
It happened that evening that he had gone out on an errand . 
Noureddin , on being awoke , told the old man that they were strangers , and merely wished to pass the night there . 
Come with me , said Scheih Ibrahim , I will lodge you better , and will show you a magnificent garden belonging to me . 
So saying the doorkeeper led the way into the Caliph's garden , the beauties of which filled them with wonder and amazement . 
Noureddin took out two gold pieces , and giving them to Scheih Ibrahim said I beg you to get us something to eat that we may make merry together . 
Being very avaricious , Scheih Ibrahim determined to spend only the tenth part of the money and to keep the rest to himself . 
While he was gone Noureddin and the Persian wandered through the gardens and went up the white marble staircase of the pavilion as far as the locked door of the saloon . 
On the return of Scheih Ibrahim they begged him to open it , and to allow them to enter and admire the magnificence within . 
Consenting , he brought not only the key , but a light , and immediately unlocked the door . 
Noureddin and the Persian entering , were dazzled with the magnificence they beheld . 
The paintings and furniture were of astonishing beauty , and between each window was a silver arm holding a candle . 
Scheih Ibrahim spread the table in front of a sofa , and all three ate together . 
When they had finished eating Noureddin asked the old man to bring them a bottle of wine . 
Heaven forbid , said Scheih Ibrahim , that I should come in contact with wine ! I who have four times made the pilgrimage to Mecca , and have renounced wine for ever . 
You would , however , do us a great service in procuring us some , said Noureddin . 
You need not touch it yourself . 
Here are two pieces of gold for the expenses . 
At sight of the gold , Scheih Ibrahim set off at once to execute the commission . 
On his return , Noureddin said We have still need of cups to drink from , and of fruit , if you can procure us some . 
Scheih Ibrahim disappeared again , and soon returned with a table spread with cups of gold and silver , and every sort of beautiful fruit . 
Then he withdrew , in spite of repeated invitations to remain . 
Noureddin and the beautiful Persian , finding the wine excellent , drank of it freely , and while drinking they sang . 
Both had fine voices , and Scheih Ibrahim listened to them with great pleasure first from a distance , then he drew nearer , and finally put his head in at the door . 
Noureddin , seeing him , called to him to come in and keep them company . 
Now the old man only made a pretence of renouncing wine he frequented wine shops like other people , and had taken none of the precautions Noureddin had proposed . 
Having once yielded , he was easily persuaded to take a second cup , and a third , and so on till he no longer knew what he was doing . 
Till near midnight they continued drinking , laughing , and singing together . 
About that time the Persian , perceiving that the room was lit by only one miserable tallow candle , asked Scheih Ibrahim to light some of the beautiful candles in the silver arms . 
Light them yourself , answered the old man you are younger than I , but let five or six be enough . 
Noureddin , far from contenting himself with three , lit all , and opened all the eighty windows . 
The Caliph Haroun al Raschid , chancing at that moment to open a window in the saloon of his palace looking on the garden , was surprised to see the pavilion brilliantly illuminated . 
Calling the grand vizir , Giafar , he said to him Negligent vizir , look at the pavilion , and tell me why it is lit up when I am not there . 
When the vizir saw that it was as the Caliph said , he trembled with fear , and immediately invented an excuse . 
I granted his request , but forgot since to mention it to your Majesty . 
For punishment I condemn you to spend the rest of the night with me in company of these worthy people . 
While I dress myself as a citizen , go and disguise yourself , and then come with me . 
When they reached the garden gate they found it open , to the great indignation of the Caliph . 
The door of the pavilion being also open , he went softly upstairs , and looked in at the half closed door of the saloon . 
Great was his surprise to see Scheih Ibrahim , whose sobriety he had never doubted , drinking and singing with a young man and a beautiful lady . 
The Caliph , before giving way to his anger , determined to watch and see who the people were and what they did . 
Presently Scheih Ibrahim asked the beautiful Persian if anything were wanting to complete her enjoyment of the evening . 
If only , she said , I had an instrument upon which I might play . 
When she ceased he went softly downstairs and said to the vizir Never have I heard a finer voice , nor the lute better played . 
I am determined to go in and make her play to me . 
Commander of the Faithful , said the vizir , if Scheih Ibrahim recognises you he will die of fright . 
I should be sorry for that , answered the Caliph , and I am going to take steps to prevent it . 
Wait here till I return . 
Now the Caliph had caused a bend in the river to form a lake in his garden . 
There the finest fish in the Tigris were to be found , but fishing was strictly forbidden . 
It happened that night , however , that a fisherman had taken advantage of the gate being open to go in and cast his nets . 
He was just about to draw them when he saw the Caliph approaching . 
Recognising him at once in spite of his disguise , he threw himself at his feet imploring forgiveness . 
Fear nothing , said the Caliph , only rise up and draw thy nets . 
The fisherman did as he was told , and produced five or six fine fish , of which the Caliph took the two largest . 
Then he desired the fisherman to change clothes with him , and in a few minutes the Caliph was transformed into a fisherman , even to the shoes and the turban . 
Taking the two fish in his hand , he returned to the vizir , who , not recognising him , would have sent him about his business . 
Leaving the vizir at the foot of the stairs , the Caliph went up and knocked at the door of the saloon . 
Noureddin opened it , and the Caliph , standing on the threshold , said Scheih Ibrahim , I am the fisher Kerim . 
Seeing that you are feasting with your friends , I bring you these fish . 
Noureddin and the Persian said that when the fishes were properly cooked and dressed they would gladly eat of them . 
and presented them to the Caliph , who , thanking him , asked as a further favour if the lady would play him one piece on the lute . 
The Persian gladly consented , and sang and played so as to delight the Caliph . 
Noureddin , in the habit of giving to others whatever they admired , said , Fisherman , as she pleases you so much , take her she is yours . 
The fair Persian , astounded that he should wish to part from her , took her lute , and with tears in her eyes sang her reproaches to its music . 
said to him , Sir , I perceive that this fair lady is your slave . 
Oblige me , I beg you , by relating your history . 
Noureddin willingly granted this request , and recounted everything from the purchase of the slave down to the present moment . 
And where do you go now ? asked the Caliph . 
Wherever the hand of Allah leads me , said Noureddin . 
Then , if you will listen to me , said the Caliph , you will immediately return to Balsora . 
I will give you a letter to the king , which will ensure you a good reception from him . 
It is an unheard of thing , said Noureddin , that a fisherman should be in correspondence with a king . 
Letter of the Caliph Haroun al Raschid to the King of Balsora . 
Haroun al Raschid , son of Mahdi , sends this letter to Mohammed Zinebi , his cousin . 
The Caliph then gave this letter to Noureddin , who immediately set off , with only what little money he possessed when Sangiar came to his assistance . 
The beautiful Persian , inconsolable at his departure , sank on a sofa bathed in tears . 
When Noureddin had left the room , Scheih Ibrahim , who had hitherto kept silence , said Kerim , for two miserable fish thou hast received a purse and a slave . 
If you do not agree to these conditions you shall have nothing . 
It hit against the wall , and broke into a thousand pieces . 
Scheih Ibrahim , still more enraged , then went ont to fetch a stick . 
The Caliph at that moment clapped his hands , and the vizir and the four slaves entering took off the fisherman's dress and put on him that which they had brought . 
Throwing himself on the ground at the Caliph's feet , he said Commander of the Faithful , your miserable slave has offended you , and craves forgiveness . 
The Caliph came down from his throne , and said Rise , I forgive thee . 
Meanwhile I will give you an apartment in my palace , where you will be treated with all honour . 
At this the beautiful Persian took courage , and the Caliph was as good as his word , recommending her to the care of his wife Zobeida . 
Noureddin made all haste on his journey to Balsora , and on his arrival there went straight to the palace of the king , of whom he demanded an audience . 
It was immediately granted , and holding the letter high above his head he forced his way through the crowd . 
While the king read the letter he changed colour . 
He would instantly have executed the Caliph's order , but first he showed the letter to Saouy , whose interests were equally at stake with his own . 
Then , turning to the king , he said Your majesty has no need to obey this letter . 
The writing is indeed that of the Caliph , but the formula is absent . 
Besides , he has not sent an express with the patent , without which the letter is useless . 
Leave all to me , and I will take the consequences . 
The king not only listened to the persuasions of Saouy , but gave Noureddin into his hands . 
After ten days Saouy determined to put an end to Noureddin's life , but dared not without the king's authority . 
What ! said the king is that wretch still alive ? Go and behead him at once . 
Sire , said Saouy , I thank your Majesty for the justice you do me . 
The king granted these requests , and the announcement caused universal grief , for the memory of Noureddin's father was still fresh in the hearts of his people . 
Saouy , accompanied by twenty of his own slaves , went to the prison to fetch Noureddin , whom he mounted on a wretched horse without a saddle . 
So great was the indignation against Saouy that if anyone had set the example he would have been stoned on his way through the streets . 
Saouy , who witnessed the agitation of the people from the windows of the king's privy chambers , called to the executioner to strike at once . 
The king , however , ordered him to delay not only was he jealous of Saouy's interference , but he had another reason . 
A troop of horsemen was seen at that moment riding at full gallop towards the square . 
Now , they were the vizir Giafar and his suite arriving at full speed from Bagdad . 
For several days after Noureddin's departure with the letter the Caliph had forgotten to send the express with the patent , without which the letter was useless . 
Giafar rode at full speed through the square , and alighted at the steps of the palace , where the king came to greet him . 
The vizir's first question was whether Noureddin were still alive . 
The king replied that he was , and he was immediately led forth , though bound hand and foot . 
By the vizir's orders his bonds were immediately undone , and Saouy was tied with the same cords . 
Next day Giafar returned to Bagdad , bearing with him the king , Saouy , and Noureddin . 
He became one of his most intimate courtiers , and lived long in great happiness with the fair Persian . 
As to the king , the Caliph contented himself with sending him back to Balsora , with the recommendation to be more careful in future in the choice of his vizir . 
This so grieved the father that he died yet , in spite of his mother's tears and prayers , Aladdin did not mend his ways . 
One day , when he was playing in the streets as usual , a stranger asked him his age , and if he were not the son of Mustapha the tailor . 
I am , sir , replied Aladdin but he died a long while ago . 
Go to your mother and tell her I am coming . 
Aladdin ran home , and told his mother of his newly found uncle . 
Indeed , child , she said , your father had a brother , but I always thought he was dead . 
However , she prepared supper , and bade Aladdin seek his uncle , who came laden with wine and fruit . 
He then turned to Aladdin , and asked him his trade , at which the boy hung his head , while his mother burst into tears . 
On learning that Aladdin was idle and would learn no trade , he offered to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise . 
Next day the magician led Aladdin into some beautiful gardens a long way outside the city gates . 
They sat down by a fountain , and the magician pulled a cake from his girdle , which he divided between them . 
They then journeyed onwards till they almost reached the mountains . 
Aladdin was so tired that he begged to go back , but the magician beguiled him with pleasant stories , and led him on in spite of himself . 
At last they came to two mountains divided by a narrow valley . 
We will go no farther , said the false uncle . 
I will show you something wonderful only do you gather up sticks while I kindle a fire . 
When it was lit the magician threw on it a powder he had about him , at the same time saying some magical words . 
The earth trembled a little and opened in front of them , disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise it by . 
Aladdin tried to run away , but the magician caught him and gave him a blow that knocked him down . 
What have I done , uncle ? he said piteously whereupon the magician said more kindly Fear nothing , but obey me . 
Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours , and no one else may touch it , so you must do exactly as I tell you . 
At the word treasure , Aladdin forgot his fears , and grasped the ring as he was told , saying the names of his father and grandfather . 
The stone came up quite easily and some steps appeared . 
Go down , said the magician at the foot of those steps you will find an open door leading into three large halls . 
Tuck up your gown and go through them without touching anything , or you will die instantly . 
These halls lead into a garden of fine fruit trees . 
Walk on till you come to a niche in a terrace where stands a lighted lamp . 
Pour out the oil it contains and bring it to me . 
He drew a ring from his finger and gave it to Aladdin , bidding him prosper . 
Aladdin found everything as the magician had said , gathered some fruit off the trees , and , having got the lamp , arrived at the mouth of the cave . 
The magician cried out in a great hurry Make haste and give me the lamp . 
This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave . 
The magician flew into a terrible passion , and throwing some more powder on the fire , he said something , and the stone rolled back into its place . 
Though he alone knew where to find it , he could only receive it from the hand of another . 
He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for this purpose , intending to get the lamp and kill him afterwards . 
For two days Aladdin remained in the dark , crying and lamenting . 
At last he clasped his hands in prayer , and in so doing rubbed the ring , which the magician had forgotten to take from him . 
Aladdin fearlessly replied Deliver me from this place ! whereupon the earth opened , and he found himself outside . 
As soon as his eyes could bear the light he went home , but fainted on the threshold . 
He then asked for some food . 
Alas ! child , she said , I have nothing in the house , but I have spun a little cotton and will go and sell it . 
Aladdin bade her keep her cotton , for he would sell the lamp instead . 
As it was very dirty she began to rub it , that it might fetch a higher price . 
Instantly a hideous genie appeared , and asked what she would have . 
Aladdin's mother , when she came to herself , said Whence comes this splendid feast ? Ask not , but eat , replied Aladdin . 
So they sat at breakfast till it was dinner time , and Aladdin told his mother about the lamp . 
She begged him to sell it , and have nothing to do with devils . 
No , said Aladdin , since chance has made us aware of its virtues , we will use it and the ring likewise , which I shall always wear on my finger . 
When they had eaten all the genie had brought , Aladdin sold one of the silver plates , and so on till none were left . 
He then had recourse to the genie , who gave him another set of plates , and thus they lived for many years . 
Aladdin was seized by a desire to see her face , which was very difficult , as she always went veiled . 
He hid himself behind the door of the bath , and peeped through a chink . 
The princess lifted her veil as she went in , and looked so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight . 
He went home so changed that his mother was frightened . 
He told her he loved the princess so deeply that he could not live without her , and meant to ask her in marriage of her father . 
His mother , on hearing this , burst out laughing , but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry his request . 
She fetched a napkin and laid in it the magic fruits from the enchanted garden , which sparkled and shone like the most beautiful jewels . 
She took these with her to please the Sultan , and set out , trusting in the lamp . 
The grand vizir and the lords of council had just gone in as she entered the hall and placed herself in front of the Sultan . 
He , however , took no notice of her . 
She went every day for a week , and stood in the same place . 
When the council broke up on the sixth day the Sultan said to his vizir I see a certain woman in the audience chamber every day carrying something in a napkin . 
Call her next time , that I may find out what she wants . 
She hesitated , so the Sultan sent away all but the vizir , and bade her speak freely , promising to forgive her beforehand for anything she might say . 
She then told him of her son's violent love for the princess . 
Now I pray you to forgive not me alone , but my son Aladdin . 
The Sultan asked her kindly what she had in the napkin , whereupon she unfolded the jewels and presented them . 
The Sultan granted this , and told Aladdin's mother that , though he consented to the marriage , she must not appear before him again for three months . 
My command is that to night you bring hither the bride and bridegroom . 
Master , I obey , said the genie . 
Aladdin then went to his chamber , where , sure enough at midnight the genie transported the bed containing the vizir's son and the princess . 
Take this new married man , he said , and put him outside in the cold , and return at daybreak . 
Whereupon the genie took the vizir's son out of bed , leaving Aladdin with the princess . 
Fear nothing , Aladdin said to her you are my wife , promised to me by your unjust father , and no harm shall come to you . 
The princess was too frightened to speak , and passed the most miserable night of her life , while Aladdin lay down beside her and slept soundly . 
At the appointed hour the genie fetched in the shivering bridegroom , laid him in his place , and transported the bed back to the palace . 
Presently the Sultan came to wish his daughter good morning . 
The unhappy vizir's son jumped up and hid himself , while the princess would not say a word , and was very sorrowful . 
Her mother did not believe her in the least , but bade her rise and consider it an idle dream . 
The following night exactly the same thing happened , and next morning , on the princess's refusing to speak , the Sultan threatened to cut off her head . 
She then confessed all , bidding him ask the vizir's son if it were not so . 
His wish was granted , and there was an end of feasting and rejoicing . 
When the three months were over , Aladdin sent his mother to remind the Sultan of his promise . 
She stood in the same place as before , and the Sultan , who had forgotten Aladdin , at once remembered him , and sent for her . 
Tell him that I await his answer . 
The mother of Aladdin bowed low and went home , thinking all was lost . 
He summoned the genie , and in a few moments the eighty slaves arrived , and filled up the small house and garden . 
Aladdin made them set out to the palace , two and two , followed by his mother . 
They were so richly dressed , with such splendid jewels in their girdles , that everyone crowded to see them and the basins of gold they carried on their heads . 
He hesitated no longer , but said Good woman , return and tell your son that I wait for him with open arms . 
She lost no time in telling Aladdin , bidding him make haste . 
But Aladdin first called the genie . 
I want a scented bath , he said , a richly embroidered habit , a horse surpassing the Sultan's , and twenty slaves to attend me . 
Besides this , six slaves , beautifully dressed , to wait on my mother and lastly , ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses . 
No sooner said than done . 
Aladdin mounted his horse and passed through the streets , the slaves strewing gold as they went . 
Those who had played with him in his childhood knew him not , he had grown so handsome . 
But Aladdin refused , saying , I must build a palace fit for her , and took his leave . 
Once home he said to the genie Build me a palace of the finest marble , set with jasper , agate , and other precious stones . 
Aladdin's mother then dressed herself carefully , and walked to the palace with her slaves , while he followed her on horseback . 
The Sultan sent musicians with trumpets and cymbals to meet them , so that the air resounded with music and cheers . 
She was taken to the princess , who saluted her and treated her with great honour . 
She was charmed at the sight of Aladdin , who ran to receive her . 
Princess , he said , blame your beauty for my boldness if I have displeased you . 
She told him that , having seen him , she willingly obeyed her father in this matter . 
After the wedding had taken place Aladdin led her into the hall , where a feast was spread , and she supped with him , after which they danced till midnight . 
Next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to see the palace . 
Was it by accident that one window was left unfinished ? No , sir , by design , returned Aladdin . 
I wished your Majesty to have the glory of finishing this palace . 
The Sultan was pleased , and sent for the best jewelers in the city . 
He showed them the unfinished window , and bade them fit it up like the others . 
Sir , replied their spokesman , we cannot find jewels enough . 
The Sultan had his own fetched , which they soon used , but to no purpose , for in a month's time the work was not half done . 
Aladdin , knowing that their task was vain , bade them undo their work and carry the jewels back , and the genie finished the window at his command . 
The Sultan was surprised to receive his jewels again and visited Aladdin , who showed him the window finished . 
The Sultan embraced him , the envious vizir meanwhile hinting that it was the work of enchantment . 
Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing . 
As he passed through the town he heard people talking everywhere about a marvellous palace . 
The magician thanked him who spoke , and having seen the palace knew that it had been raised by the genie of the lamp , and became half mad with rage . 
He determined to get hold of the lamp , and again plunge Aladdin into the deepest poverty . 
Unluckily , Aladdin had gone a hunting for eight days , which gave the magician plenty of time . 
He bought a dozen copper lamps , put them into a basket , and went to the palace , crying New lamps for old ! followed by a jeering crowd . 
Now this was the magic lamp , which Aladdin had left there , as he could not take it out hunting with him . 
The princess , not knowing its value , laughingly bade the slave take it and make the exchange . 
She went and said to the magician Give me a new lamp for this . 
He snatched it and bade the slave take her choice , amid the jeers of the crowd . 
The genie appeared , and at the magician's command carried him , together with the palace and the princess in it , to a lonely place in Africa . 
Next morning the Sultan looked out of the window towards Aladdin's palace and rubbed his eyes , for it was gone . 
He sent for the vizir , and asked what had become of the palace . 
The vizir looked out too , and was lost in astonishment . 
He again put it down to enchantment , and this time the Sultan believed him , and sent thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin in chains . 
They met him riding home , bound him , and forced him to go with them on foot . 
The people , however , who loved him , followed , armed , to see that he came to no harm . 
He was carried before the Sultan , who ordered the executioner to cut off his head . 
The executioner made Aladdin kneel down , bandaged his eyes , and raised his scimitar to strike . 
The people , indeed , looked so threatening that the Sultan gave way and ordered Aladdin to be unbound , and pardoned him in the sight of the crowd . 
Aladdin now begged to know what he had done . 
False wretch ! said the Sultan , come hither , and showed him from the window the place where his palace had stood . 
Aladdin was so amazed that he could not say a word . 
Where is my palace and my daughter ? demanded the Sultan . 
For the first I am not so deeply concerned , but my daughter I must have , and you must find her or lose your head . 
Aladdin begged for forty days in which to find her , promising if he failed to return and suffer death at the Sultan's pleasure . 
His prayer was granted , and he went forth sadly from the Sultan's presence . 
For three days he wandered about like a madman , asking everyone what had become of his palace , but they only laughed and pitied him . 
He came to the banks of a river , and knelt down to say his prayers before throwing himself in . 
In so doing he rubbed the magic ring he still wore . 
The genie he had seen in the cave appeared , and asked his will . 
Save my life , genie , said Aladdin , and bring my palace back . 
That is not in my power , said the genie I am only the slave of the ring you must ask the slave of the lamp . 
Even so , said Aladdin but thou canst take me to the palace , and set me down under my dear wife's window . 
He at once found himself in Africa , under the window of the princess , and fell asleep out of sheer weariness . 
He was awakened by the singing of the birds , and his heart was lighter . 
He saw plainly that all his misfortunes were owing to the loss of the lamp , and vainly wondered who had robbed him of it . 
That morning the princess rose earlier than she had done since she had been carried into Africa by the magician , whose company she was forced to endure once a day . 
She , however , treated him so harshly that he dared not live there altogether . 
As she was dressing , one of her women looked out and saw Aladdin . 
The princess ran and opened the window , and at the noise she made Aladdin looked up . 
She called to him to come to her , and great was the joy of these lovers at seeing each other again . 
Alas ! she said I am the innocent cause of our sorrows , and told him of the exchange of the lamp . 
He wishes me to break my faith with you and marry him , saying that you were beheaded by my father's command . 
He is forever speaking ill of you , but I only reply by my tears . 
If I persist , I doubt not that he will use violence . 
Aladdin comforted her , and left her for a while . 
He changed clothes with the first person he met in the town , and having bought a certain powder returned to the princess , who let him in by a little side door . 
Put on your most beautiful dress , he said to her , and receive the magician with smiles , leading him to believe that you have forgotten me . 
Invite him to sup with you , and say you wish to taste the wine of his country . 
He will go for some , and while he is gone I will tell you what to do . 
She listened carefully to Aladdin , and when he left her arrayed herself gaily for the first time since she left China . 
The magician flew to his cellar , and the princess put the powder Aladdin had given her in her cup . 
When he returned she asked him to drink her health in the wine of Africa , handing him her cup in exchange for his as a sign she was reconciled to him . 
She set her cup to her lips and kept it there , while the magician drained his to the dregs and fell back lifeless . 
He then went to the dead magician , took the lamp out of his vest , and bade the genie carry the palace and all in it back to China . 
This was done , and the princess in her chamber only felt two little shocks , and little thought she was at home again . 
Aladdin told him what had happened , and showed him the dead body of the magician , that he might believe . 
A ten days' feast was proclaimed , and it seemed as if Aladdin might now live the rest of his life in peace but it was not to be . 
The African magician had a younger brother , who was , if possible , more wicked and more cunning than himself . 
He travelled to China to avenge his brother's death , and went to visit a pious woman called Fatima , thinking she might be of use to him . 
He entered her cell and clapped a dagger to her breast , telling her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death . 
He changed clothes with her , coloured his face like hers , put on her veil and murdered her , that she might tell no tales . 
Then he went towards the palace of Aladdin , and all the people thinking he was the holy woman , gathered round him , kissing his hands and begging his blessing . 
When he got to the palace there was such a noise going on round him that the princess bade her slave look out of the window and ask what was the matter . 
The slave said it was the holy woman , curing people by her touch of their ailments , whereupon the princess , who had long desired to see Fatima , sent for her . 
On coming to the princess the magician offered up a prayer for her health and prosperity . 
When he had done the princess made him sit by her , and begged him to stay with her always . 
The false Fatima , who wished for nothing better , consented , but kept his veil down for fear of discovery . 
The princess showed him the hall , and asked him what he thought of it . 
It is truly beautiful , said the false Fatima . 
In my mind it wants but one thing . 
And what is that ? said the princess . 
If only a roc's egg , replied he , were hung up from the middle of this dome , it would be the wonder of the world . 
After this the princess could think of nothing but a roc's egg , and when Aladdin returned from hunting he found her in a very ill humour . 
He begged to know what was amiss , and she told him that all her pleasure in the hall was spoilt for the want of a roc's egg hanging from the dome . 
It that is all , replied Aladdin , you shall soon be happy . 
He left her and rubbed the lamp , and when the genie appeared commanded him to bring a roc's egg . 
The genie gave such a loud and terrible shriek that the hall shook . 
He is now in your palace disguised as the holy woman whom he murdered . 
He it was who put that wish into your wife's head . 
Take care of yourself , for he means to kill you . 
So saying the genie disappeared . 
Aladdin went back to the princess , saying his head ached , and requesting that the holy Fatima should be fetched to lay her hands on it . 
But when the magician came near , Aladdin , seizing his dagger , pierced him to the heart . 
What have you done ? cried the princess . 
You have killed the holy woman ! Not so , replied Aladdin , but a wicked magician , and told her of how she had been deceived . 
After this Aladdin and his wife lived in peace . 
He succeeded the Sultan when he died , and reigned for many years , leaving behind him a long line of kings . 
You are right , returned the Caliph , I had forgotten all about it . 
Go and change your coat , and I will change mine . 
A few moments later they both re entered the hall , disguised as foreign merchants , and passed through a secret door , out into the open country . 
The Caliph gave him a piece of money , and was passing on , but the blind man seized his hand , and held him fast . 
Charitable person , he said , whoever you may be grant me yet another prayer . 
Strike me , I beg of you , one blow . 
I have deserved it richly , and even a more severe penalty . 
The Caliph , much surprised at this request , replied gently My good man , that which you ask is impossible . 
Of what use would my alms be if I treated you so ill ? And as he spoke he tried to loosen the grasp of the blind beggar . 
My lord , answered the man , pardon my boldness and my persistence . 
Take back your money , or give me the blow which I crave . 
Moved by these words , and perhaps still more by the fact that he had other business to attend to , the Caliph yielded , and struck him lightly on the shoulder . 
Then he continued his road , followed by the blessing of the blind man . 
Go back to him tell him who I am , and order him to come without fail to the palace to morrow , after the hour of evening prayer . 
So the grand vizir went back to the bridge gave the blind beggar first a piece of money and then a blow , delivered the Caliph's message , and rejoined his master . 
They all bowed themselves low before the throne and then the Caliph bade them rise , and ask the blind man his name . 
Baba Abdalla , your Highness , said he . 
But I have sent for you to inquire what was your motive in making such a curious vow . 
Tell me therefore the whole truth , and conceal nothing . 
These words troubled the heart of Baba Abdalla , who prostrated himself at the feet of the Caliph . 
I had inherited from them a small fortune , which I worked hard night and day to increase , till at last I found myself the owner of eighty camels . 
These I hired out to travelling merchants , whom I frequently accompanied on their various journeys , and always returned with large profits . 
We soon made friends , and after we had asked each other the usual questions , we produced the food we had with us , and satisfied our hunger . 
But tell me where it is , and I will load my eighty camels with it , and give you one of them as a token of my gratitude . 
The dervish saw quite well what was passing in my mind , but he did not show what he thought of my proposal . 
My brother , he answered quietly , you know as well as I do , that you are behaving unjustly . 
It was open to me to keep my secret , and to reserve the treasure for myself . 
I think you will see that this is fair , for if you present me with forty camels , I on my side will give you the means of buying a thousand more . 
Still there was no use in discussing the matter , and I had to accept his conditions or bewail to the end of my life the loss of immense wealth . 
So I collected my camels and we set out together under the guidance of the dervish . 
After walking some time , we reached what looked like a valley , but with such a narrow entrance that my camels could only pass one by one . 
The little valley , or open space , was shut up by two mountains , whose sides were formed of straight cliffs , which no human being could climb . 
When we were exactly between these mountains the dervish stopped . 
Make your camels lie down in this open space , he said , so that we can easily load them then we will go to the treasure . 
I did what I was bid , and rejoined the dervish , whom I found trying to kindle a fire out of some dry wood . 
The dervish likewise set to work , but I soon noticed that he confined himself to collecting precious stones , and I felt I should be wise to follow his example . 
At length the camels were loaded with as much as they could carry , and nothing remained but to seal up the treasure , and go our ways . 
Then he once more kindled the fire , threw on the perfume , and murmured the unknown spell , and the rock closed , and stood whole as before . 
I had hardly come up with mine when the demon of envy filled my soul . 
What does a dervish want with riches like that ? I said to myself . 
He alone has the secret of the treasure , and can always get as much as he wants , and I halted my camels by the roadside , and ran back after him . 
I was a quick runner , and it did not take me very long to come up with him . 
You are a dervish by profession , and live a very quiet life , only caring to do good , and careless of the things of this world . 
If you are wise , you will not encumber yourself with more than thirty , and you will find those trouble enough . 
You are right , replied the dervish , who understood me quite well , but did not wish to fight the matter . 
I confess I had not thought about it . 
Choose any ten you like , and drive them before you . 
I selected ten of the best camels , and we proceeded along the road , to rejoin those I had left behind . 
I had got what I wanted , but I had found the dervish so easy to deal with , that I rather regretted I had not asked for ten more . 
He had only gone a few paces , and I called after him . 
As before , the dervish made no difficulties , and I drove off my ten camels in triumph , only leaving him with twenty for his share . 
I had now sixty , and anyone might have imagined that I should be content . 
But , Commander of the Faithful , there is a proverb that says , the more one has , the more one wants . 
So it was with me . 
Make a good use of them , my brother , said the holy man . 
Remember riches sometimes have wings if we keep them for ourselves , and the poor are at our gates expressly that we may help them . 
My eyes were so blinded by gold , that I paid no heed to his wise counsel , and only looked about for something else to grasp . 
Suddenly I remembered the little box of ointment that the dervish had hidden , and which most likely contained a treasure more precious than all the rest . 
Directly the box was in my hands I wrenched off the cover . 
If you apply a little of it to your left eye you will behold in an instant all the treasures hidden in the bowels of the earth . 
But beware lest you touch your right eye with it , or your sight will be destroyed for ever . 
His words excited my curiosity to the highest pitch . 
Make trial on me , I implore you , I cried , holding out the box to the dervish . 
You will know how to do it better than I ! I am burning with impatience to test its charms . 
The dervish took the box I had extended to him , and , bidding me shut my left eye , touched it gently with the ointment . 
When I opened it again I saw spread out , as it were before me , treasures of every kind and without number . 
But as all this time I had been obliged to keep my right eye closed , which was very fatiguing , I begged the dervish to apply the ointment to that eye also . 
So I turned a deaf ear to all he said . 
My brother , I replied smiling , I see you are joking . 
It is not natural that the same ointment should have two such exactly opposite effects . 
It is true all the same , answered the dervish , and it would be well for you if you believed my word . 
And I continued to press the dervish to anoint my right eye , but this he resolutely declined to do . 
After having conferred such benefits on you , said he , I am loth indeed to work you such evil . 
Think what it is to be blind , and do not force me to do what you will repent as long as you live . 
It was of no use . 
My brother , I said firmly , pray say no more , but do what I ask . 
You have most generously responded to my wishes up to this time , da not spoil my recollection of you for a thing of such little consequence . 
Let what will happen I take it on my own head , and will never reproach you . 
When I tried to open it heavy clouds of darkness floated before me . 
Ah , now that my eyes are closed they are really opened . 
The blindness of your heart has wrought the blindness of your body . 
Yes , I have secrets that you have seen in the short time that we have known each other . 
But I have none that will give you back your sight . 
You have proved yourself unworthy of the riches that were given you . 
Now they have passed into my hands , whence they will flow into the hands of others less greedy and ungrateful than you . 
It was in vain that I entreated him not to leave me , but at least to take me within reach of the first passing caravan . 
From a rich man I had in one moment become a beggar and up to this time I have lived solely on the alms that have been bestowed on me . 
But , in order to expiate the sin of avarice , which was my undoing , I oblige each passer by to give me a blow . 
This , Commander of the Faithful , is my story . 
When the blind man had ended the Caliph addressed him Baba Abdalla , truly your sin is great , but you have suffered enough . 
Henceforth repent in private , for I will see that enough money is given you day by day for all your wants . 
At these words Baba Abdalla flung himself at the Caliph's feet , and prayed that honour and happiness might be his portion for ever . 
The young man replied that he was called Sidi Nouman . 
Every one who looked on was indignant , and blamed you loudly . 
As for myself , I was so angry that I was very nearly disclosing who I was , and putting a stop to it at once . 
Still , you have not the air of a cruel man , and I would gladly believe that you did not act in this way without some reason . 
But tell me the whole truth , and conceal nothing . 
Sidi Nouman changed colour as he heard these words , and his manner grew confused but he saw plainly that there was no help for it . 
So he prostrated himself before the throne of the Caliph and tried to obey , but the words stuck in his throat , and he remained silent . 
The Caliph , accustomed though he was to instant obedience , guessed something of what was passing in the young man's mind , and sought to put him at his ease . 
Sidi Nouman , he said , do not think of me as the Caliph , but merely as a friend who would like to hear your story . 
If there is anything in it that you are afraid may offend me , take courage , for I pardon you beforehand . 
Speak then openly and without fear , as to one who knows and loves you . 
Reassured by the kindness of the Caliph , Sidi Nouman at length began his tale . 
Commander of the Faithful , said he , dazzled though I am by the lustre of your Highness' presence , I will do my best to satisfy your wishes . 
I am by no means perfect , but I am not naturally cruel , neither do I take pleasure in breaking the law . 
Commander of the Faithful , I will not trouble to describe my birth it is not of sufficient distinction to deserve your Highness' attention . 
My ancestors were careful people , and I inherited enough money to enable me to live comfortably , though without show . 
And whatever defects her body may have , pleasant ways and good behaviour will go far to remedy them . 
I began my married life in high spirits , and the best hopes of happiness . 
The following day a grand dinner was served to us but as my wife did not appear , I ordered a servant to call her . 
Still she did not come , and I waited impatiently for some time . 
At last she entered the room , and she took our places at the table , and plates of rice were set before us . 
Likewise that she might either have dined already or intend to do so in her own apartments . 
So I took no further notice , and when I had finished left the room , secretly much vexed at her strange conduct . 
The same thing occurred at supper , and all through the next day , whenever we ate together . 
One night I was lying with my eyes closed , and to , all appearance sound asleep , when Amina arose softly , and dressed herself without making the slightest sound . 
I could not imagine what she was going to do , and as my curiosity was great I made up my mind to follow her . 
When she was fully dressed , she stole quietly from the room . 
The instant she had let the curtain fall behind her , I flung a garment on my shoulders and a pair of slippers on my feet . 
Looking from a lattice which opened into the court , I saw her in the act of passing through the street door , which she carefully left open . 
It was bright moonlight , so I easily managed to keep her in sight , till she entered a cemetery not far from the house . 
If no live being goes their way , they then betake themselves to the cemeteries , and feed upon the dead bodies . 
I was nearly struck dumb with horror on seeing my wife with this hideous female ghoul . 
When they had finished , they threw back the body into the grave , and heaped back the earth upon it . 
I made no effort to disturb them , and returned quickly to the house , when I took care to leave the door open , as I had previously found it . 
Then I got back into bed , and pretended to sleep soundly . 
A short time after Amina entered as quietly as she had gone out . 
She undressed and stole into bed , congratulating herself apparently on the cleverness with which she had managed her expedition . 
As soon as I appeared , Amina ordered dinner to be served , and we sat down together . 
As usual , she persisted in only picking a few grains of rice , and I resolved to speak to her at once of what lay so heavily on my heart . 
However I had patience with you , and only tried to tempt your appetite by the choicest dishes I could invent , but all to no purpose . 
Her face became purple , her eyes looked as if they would start from her head , and she positively foamed with rage . 
I watched her with terror , wondering what would happen next , but little thinking what would be the end of her fury . 
She seized a vessel of water that stood at hand , and plunging her hand in it , murmured some words I failed to catch . 
Then , sprinkling it on my face , she cried madly Wretch , receive the reward of your prying , and become a dog . 
The words were not out of her mouth when , without feeling conscious that any change was passing over me , I suddenly knew that I had ceased to be a man . 
Indeed her blows were so heavy , that I only wonder they did not kill me at once . 
In order to avoid them , I took refuge in a cookshop , where tongues and sheep's heads were sold . 
At first the owner showed me great kindness , and drove away the other dogs that were still at my heels , while I crept into the darkest corner . 
So after my enemies had gone to seek other prey , he tried to lure me from my corner in order to force me into the street . 
But I refused to come out of my hole , and spent the night in sleep , which I sorely needed , after the pain inflicted on me by Amina . 
The smell of meat attracted various hungry dogs in the neighbourhood , and they gathered round the door begging for some bits . 
I stole out of my corner , and stood with them . 
A few paces further on was a baker's shop , which seemed to have a gay and merry man for a master . 
At that moment he was having his breakfast , and though I gave no signs of hunger , he at once threw me a piece of bread . 
This he gave me , and indeed encouraged me to come into the house itself , giving me a corner where I might sleep , without being in anybody's way . 
The kindness heaped on me by this excellent man was far greater than I could ever have expected . 
Some weeks passed in this way , when one day a woman came in to buy bread . 
In paying for it , she laid down several pieces of money , one of which was bad . 
The baker perceived this , and declined to take it , demanding another in its place . 
The woman , for her part , refused to take it back , declaring it was perfectly good , but the baker would have nothing to do with it . 
It is really such a bad imitation , he exclaimed at last , that even my dog would not be taken in . 
Here Rufus ! Rufus ! and hearing his voice , I jumped on to the counter . 
The baker threw down the money before me , and said , Find out if there is a bad coin . 
I looked at each in turn , and then laid my paw on the false one , glancing at the same time at my master , so as to point it out . 
When she had gone , my master was so pleased that he told all the neighbours what I had done , and made a great deal more of it than there really was . 
The baker drove a roaring trade , and admitted that I was worth my weight in gold to him . 
Of course there were plenty who envied him his large custom , and many was the pitfall set for me , so that he never dared to let me out of his sight . 
One day a woman , who had not been in the shop before , came to ask for bread , like the rest . 
As usual , I was lying on the counter , and she threw down six coins before me , one of which was false . 
I detected it at once , and put my paw on it , looking as I did so at the woman . 
Yes , she said , nodding her head . 
You are quite right , that is the one . 
She stood gazing at me attentively for some time , then paid for the bread , and left the shop , making a sign for me to follow her secretly . 
However I let her go on a little way , and merely stood at the door watching her . 
She turned , and seeing that I was quite still , she again beckoned to me . 
The baker all this while was busy with his oven , and had forgotten all about me , so I stole out softly , and ran after the woman . 
When I had entered she fastened the door , and took me into a large room , where a beautiful girl was working at a piece of embroidery . 
My daughter , exclaimed my guide , I have brought you the famous dog belonging to the baker which can tell good money from bad . 
You know that when I first heard of him , I told you I was sure he must be really a man , changed into a dog by magic . 
To day I went to the baker's , to prove for myself the truth of the story , and persuaded the dog to follow me here . 
Now what do you say ? You are right , mother , replied the girl , and rising she dipped her hand into a vessel of water . 
Then sprinkling it over me she said , If you were born dog , remain dog but if you were born man , by virtue of this water resume your proper form . 
In one moment the spell was broken . 
The dog's shape vanished as if it had never been , and it was a man who stood before her . 
Overcome with gratitude at my deliverance , I flung myself at her feet , and kissed the hem of her garment . 
How can I thank you for your goodness towards a stranger , and for what you have done ? Henceforth I am your slave . 
Sidi Nouman , returned the daughter , say no more about the obligation you are under to us . 
The knowledge that we have been of service to you is ample payment . 
Let us speak of Amina , your wife , with whom I was acquainted before her marriage . 
I was aware that she was a magician , and she knew too that I had studied the same art , under the same mistress . 
We met often going to the same baths , but we did not like each other , and never sought to become friends . 
As to what concerns you , it is not enough to have broken your spell , she must be punished for her wickedness . 
Remain for a moment with my mother , I beg , she added hastily , I will return shortly . 
Left alone with the mother , I again expressed the gratitude I felt , to her as well as to her daughter . 
That is why I have never interfered , otherwise I should have put a stop to it long ago . 
As she spoke , her daughter entered with a small bottle in her hand . 
Sidi Nouman , she said , the books I have just consulted tell me that Amina is not home at present , but she should return at any moment . 
I have likewise found out by their means , that she pretends before the servants great uneasiness as to your absence . 
By this means a dog had strayed in , which she was forced to get rid of by a stick . 
Go home then without delay , and await Amina's return in your room . 
When she comes in , go down to meet her , and in her surprise , she will try to run away . 
Then have this bottle ready , and dash the water it contains over her , saying boldly , Receive the reward of your crimes . 
That is all I have to tell you . 
Everything happened exactly as the young magician had foretold . 
I had not been in my house many minutes before Amina returned , and as she approached I stepped in front of her , with the water in my hand . 
She gave one loud cry , and turned to the door , but she was too late . 
I had already dashed the water in her face and spoken the magic words . 
Amina disappeared , and in her place stood the horse you saw me beating yesterday . 
Ali Cogia was much troubled by this dream , as he was unwilling to give up his shop , and lose all his customers . 
The first thing he did was to sell his furniture and the wares he had in his shop , only reserving to himself such goods as he might trade with on the road . 
The shop itself he sold also , and easily found a tenant for his private house . 
The only matter he could not settle satisfactorily was the safe custody of a thousand pieces of gold which he wished to leave behind him . 
After some thought , Ali Cogia hit upon a plan which seemed a safe one . 
He took a large vase , and placing the money in the bottom of it , filled up the rest with olives . 
I promise that you shall find it in the same place on your return . 
A few days later , Ali Cogia mounted the camel that he had laden with merchandise , joined the caravan , and arrived in due time at Mecca . 
Ali Cogia heard the words , and lost no time in following the advice . 
He packed up his wares , and instead of returning to Bagdad , joined a caravan that was going to Cairo . 
The results of the journey gladdened his heart . 
That reminds me , said the husband , that before Ali Cogia went to Mecca seven years ago , he left a vase of olives in my care . 
But really by this time he must be dead , and there is no reason we should not eat the olives if we like . 
Give me a light , and I will fetch them and see how they taste . 
And probably after all this while they are no longer good . 
I have a presentiment that Ali Cogia will return , and what will he think of you ? Give it up , I entreat . 
The merchant , however , refused to listen to her advice , sensible though it was . 
He took a light and a dish and went into his shop . 
If you will be so obstinate , said his wife , I cannot help it but do not blame me if it turns out ill . 
As they fell out a few of the gold pieces fell out too . 
The sight of the money roused all the merchant's greed . 
He looked into the vase , and saw that all the bottom was filled with gold . 
He then replaced the olives and returned to his wife . 
You would have done better to believe me , replied the wife . 
I trust that no harm will come of it . 
This done he recorked the vase and put it in the same place where it had been left by Ali Cogia . 
After a few moments given to inquiries Ali Cogia begged the merchant to hand him over the vase that he had taken care of for so long . 
Oh certainly , said he , I am only glad I could be of use to you in the matter . 
Here is the key of my shop you will find the vase in the place where you put it . 
Ali Cogia fetched his vase and carried it to his room at the inn , where he opened it . 
He thrust down his hand but could feel no money , but still was persuaded it must be there . 
So he got some plates and vessels from his travelling kit and emptied ont the olives . 
The gold was not there . 
Perhaps you may have taken a loan of them for your business purposes if that is so you are most welcome . 
I will only ask you to give me a receipt , and you can pay the money at your leisure . 
The merchant , who had expected something of the sort , had his reply all ready . 
I know nothing about that you only told me there were olives . 
You can believe me or not , but I have not laid a finger on the vase . 
Ali Cogia still tried every means to persuade the merchant to admit the truth . 
I love peace , he said , and shall deeply regret having to resort to harsh measures . 
Once more , think of your reputation . 
I shall be in despair if you oblige me to call in the aid of the law . 
Ali Cogia , answered the merchant , you allow that it was a vase of olives you placed in my charge . 
I wonder you have not demanded pearls or diamonds . 
Retire , I pray you , lest a crowd should gather in front of my shop . 
But at the merchant's last words Ali Cogia resolved to lay the cause of the quarrel before them , and told them the whole story . 
They heard him to the end , and inquired of the merchant what he had to say . 
We shall soon see which of us is in the right . 
So the two men presented themselves before the Cadi , and Ali Cogia again repeated his tale . 
The Cadi asked what witnesses he had . 
Ali Cogia replied that he had not taken this precaution , as he had considered the man his friend , and up to that time had always found him honest . 
The Cadi allowed him to take the oath , and pronounced him innocent . 
Ali Cogia , furious at having to suffer such a loss , protested against the verdict , declaring that he would appeal to the Caliph , Haroun al Raschid , himself . 
But the Cadi paid no attention to his threats , and was quite satisfied that he had done what was right . 
Judgment being given the merchant returned home triumphant , and Ali Cogia went back to his inn to draw up a petition to the Caliph . 
There Haroun al Raschid studied them carefully . 
Knowing this custom , Ali Cogia followed the Caliph into the public hall of the palace , and waited the result . 
After some time the officer appeared , and told him that the Caliph had read his petition , and had appointed an hour the next morning to give him audience . 
He then inquired the merchant's address , so that he might be summoned to attend also . 
He hid himself in a dark corner , and watched them . 
Let us play at being the Cadi , said the brightest and quickest of them all I will be the Cadi . 
Bring before me Ali Cogia , and the merchant who robbed him of the thousand pieces of gold . 
The boy's words recalled to the Caliph the petition he had read that morning , and he waited with interest to see what the children would do . 
The Cadi took his seat gravely , and an officer introduced first Ali Cogia , the plaintiff , and then the merchant who was the defendant . 
Ali Cogia made a low bow , and pleaded his cause point by point concluding by imploring the Cadi not to inflict on him such a heavy loss . 
The Cadi having heard his case , turned to the merchant , and inquired why he had not repaid Ali Cogia the sum in question . 
The false merchant repeated the reasons that the real merchant had given to the Cadi of Bagdad , and also offered to swear that he had told the truth . 
Stop a moment ! said the little Cadi , before we come to oaths , I should like to examine the vase with the olives . 
By his silence the merchant admitted the fact , and the Cadi then commanded to have the vase opened . 
Ali Cogia made a movement as if he was taking off the lid , and the little Cadi on his part made a pretence of peering into a vase . 
They lose both taste and colour , and are only fit to be thrown away . 
If that is so , answered the little Cadi , examine this vase , and tell me how long the olives have been in it . 
The olive merchants pretended to examine the olives and taste them then reported to the Cadi that they were fresh and good . 
You are mistaken , said he , Ali Cogia declares he put them in that vase seven years ago . 
My lord , returned the olive merchants , we can assure you that the olives are those of the present year . 
And if you consult all the merchants in Bagdad you will not find one to give a contrary opinion . 
The accused merchant opened his mouth as if to protest , but the Cadi gave him no time . 
Be silent , he said , you are a thief . 
Take him away and hang him . 
So the game ended , the children clapping their hands in applause , and leading the criminal away to be hanged . 
Haroun al Raschid was lost in astonishment at the wisdom of the child , who had given so wise a verdict on the case which he himself was to hear on the morrow . 
Is there any other verdict possible ? he asked the grand vizir , who was as much impressed as himself . 
I can imagine no better judgment . 
Then take careful note of this house , said the Caliph , and bring me the boy to morrow , so that the affair may be tried by him in my presence . 
Summon also the Cadi , to learn his duty from the mouth of a child . 
Bid Ali Cogia bring his vase of olives , and see that two dealers in olives are present . 
So saying the Caliph returned to the palace . 
The next morning early , the grand vizir went back to the house where they had seen the children playing , and asked for the mistress and her children . 
Three boys appeared , and the grand vizir inquired which had represented the Cadi in their game of the previous evening . 
So she dressed the boy in his best clothes , and the two left the house . 
When the grand vizir presented the child to the Caliph , he was a little awed and confused , and the Caliph proceeded to explain why he had sent for him . 
Approach , my son , he said kindly . 
To day you will see the real Ali Cogia and the real merchant . 
Seat yourself at once next to me . 
The Caliph being seated on his throne with the boy next him , the parties to the suit were ushered in . 
One by one they prostrated themselves , and touched the carpet at the foot of the throne with their foreheads . 
When they rose up , the Caliph said Now speak . 
This child will give you justice , and if more should be wanted I will see to it myself . 
At these words , Ali Cogia presented the vase to the Caliph , and uncovered it . 
The Caliph took one of the olives , tasted it , and ordered the expert merchants to do the same . 
They pronounced the olives good , and fresh that year . 
The boy informed them that Ali Cogia declared it was seven years since he had placed them in the vase to which they returned the same answer as the children had done . 
The accused merchant saw by this time that his condemnation was certain , and tried to allege something in his defence . 
I see nothing in it , replied the king , except a clever imitation of a real one and any skilled workman might do as much . 
Sire , returned the Indian , it is not of his outward form that I would speak , but of the use that I can make of him . 
It is this , Sire , that makes the horse so marvellous , and if your Highness will allow me , you can prove it for yourself . 
In an instant the man had vaulted on his back , and inquired where the monarch wished to send him . 
If you will sell it , name your own price . 
Greatly as I prize it , I will yield it up to your Highness on one condition . 
Name anything you like , cried the monarch , interrupting him . 
My kingdom is large , and filled with fair cities . 
You have only to choose which you would prefer , to become its ruler to the end of your life . 
A shout of laughter burst from the courtiers as they heard these words , and Prince Firouz Schah , the heir apparent , was filled with anger at the Indian's presumption . 
Sire , he said , it is not possible that you can doubt for an instant what reply you should give to such an insolent bargain . 
Consider what you owe to yourself , and to the blood of your ancestors . 
I implore you not to punish me for what was not my fault , and not to visit on me any misfortune that may occur . 
But we must hope that he will perceive and turn a second screw , which will have the effect of bringing the horse back to earth . 
So saying , he ordered his guards to seize the Indian and throw him into prison . 
He then remembered that he had never waited to ask how he was to get back to earth again , and understood the danger in which he stood . 
This he turned , and found him self dropping to the earth , though more slowly than he had left it . 
In one corner of the terrace stood a small door , opening on to a staircase which led down into the palace . 
Some people might have hesitated before exploring further , but not so the prince . 
On a landing , he noticed an open door , beyond which was a faintly lighted hall . 
Before entering , the prince paused and listened , but he heard nothing except the sound of men snoring . 
Standing quite still , Prince Firouz Schah looked about him , till his eyes grew accustomed to the gloom , and he noticed a bright light shining through a curtain in one corner . 
Gently stealing up to the side of her bed he looked at her , and saw that she was more beautiful than any woman he had ever beheld . 
But , fascinated though he was , he was well aware of the danger of his position , as one cry of surprise would awake the guards , and cause his certain death . 
So sinking quietly on his knees , he took hold of the sleeve of the princess and drew her arm lightly towards him . 
The princess opened her eyes , and seeing before her a handsome well dressed man , she remained speechless with astonishment . 
She listened kindly to what he had to say , and then answered Prince , be not uneasy hospitality and humanity are practised as widely in Bengal as they are in Persia . 
The protection you ask will be given you by all . 
You have my word for it . 
By this time the princess's attendants were all awake , and listening to the conversation . 
Then , showing him cupboards filled with dresses and linen , they quitted the room . 
During their absence the Princess of Bengal , who had been greatly struck by the beauty of the prince , tried in vain to go to sleep again . 
Madame , they replied , it is of course impossible for us to tell what impression this young man has made on you . 
For ourselves , we think you would be fortunate if the king your father should allow you to marry anyone so amiable . 
Certainly there is no one in the Court of Bengal who can be compared with him . 
Then she placed in her hair the largest and most brilliant diamonds she could find , with a necklace , bracelets and girdle , all of precious stones . 
And over her shoulders her ladies put a robe of the richest stuff in all the Indies , that no one was allowed to wear except members of the royal family . 
Her will is my law , he said , I am only here to obey her orders . 
Begin then , I entreat you , without delay . 
So the prince began at the beginning , and told all the story of the festival of Nedrouz held yearly in Persia , and of the splendid spectacles celebrated in its honour . 
But when he came to the enchanted horse , the princess declared that she could never have imagined anything half so surprising . 
I tried to argue with him , but in vain . 
of making me more sensible of its value . 
To please my father , I mounted the horse , and , without waiting for any instructions from the Indian , turned the peg as I had seen him do . 
At last , when it was growing dark , I found another screw , and on turning it , the horse began slowly to sink towards the earth . 
I was forced to trust to chance , and to see what fate had in store , and it was already past midnight when I found myself on the roof of this palace . 
The rest , Princess , you know and it only remains for me to thank you for the kindness you have shown me , and to assure you of my gratitude . 
By the law of nations , I am already your slave , and I have only my heart , that is my own , to offer you . 
Dinner was laid in a magnificent apartment , and the table was covered with delicious fruits while during the repast richly dressed girls sang softly and sweetly to stringed instruments . 
Princess , observed the young man , till now I had always believed that Persia could boast finer palaces and more lovely gardens than any kingdom upon earth . 
But my eyes have been opened , and I begin to perceive that , wherever there is a great king he will surround himself with buildings worthy of him . 
Prince , replied the Princess of Bengal , I have no idea what a Persian palace is like , so I am unable to make comparisons . 
But the reply of the Prince of Persia to her suggestion was not quite what she wished . 
But , Princess , I am persuaded that you will feel with me , that I cannot possibly present myself before so great a sovereign without the attendants suitable to my rank . 
He would think me an adventurer . 
If that is all , she answered , you can get as many attendants here as you please . 
There are plenty of Persian merchants , and as for money , my treasury is always open to you . 
Prince Firouz Schah guessed what prompted so much kindness on the part of the princess , and was much touched by it . 
Still his passion , which increased every moment , did not make him forget his duty . 
I should be unworthy indeed of all the love he showers upon me , if I did not return to him at the first possible moment . 
Princess , he added , it may be that in your heart you class me with those false lovers whose devotion cannot stand the test of absence . 
He determined to alight neither in the great square from which he had started , nor in the Sultan's palace , but in a country house at a little distance from the town . 
Then he ordered a horse to be saddled , and set out . 
All the way through the streets he was welcomed with shouts of joy by the people , who had long lost all hope of seeing him again . 
When he had calmed down a little , he begged the prince to relate his adventures . 
I have left her in one of your Highness's country houses , where she is waiting anxiously to be assured that I have not promised in vain . 
I will then bring her back with me , and make all arrangements for the wedding to be celebrated to day . 
So the Sultan gave orders that the habits of mourning worn by the people should be thrown off and that there should be a concert of drums , trumpets and cymbals . 
Also that the Indian should be taken from prison , and brought before him . 
His commands were obeyed , and the Indian was led into his presence , surrounded by guards . 
I have kept you locked up , said the Sultan , so that in case my son was lost , your life should pay the penalty . 
He has now returned so take your horse , and begone for ever . 
Knowing this , the Indian deliberately steered the horse right above the city , in order that his revenge for his unjust imprisonment might be all the quicker and sweeter . 
But mortified and furious as the Sultan was , his feelings were nothing to those of Prince Firouz Schah , when he saw the object of his passionate devotion being borne rapidly away . 
And while he was struck speechless with grief and remorse at not having guarded her better , she vanished swiftly out of his sight . 
The sight of the prince showed the doorkeeper of what folly he had been guilty , and flinging himself at his master's feet , implored his pardon . 
Rise , said the prince , I am the cause of this misfortune , and not you . 
Go and find me the dress of a dervish , but beware of saying it is for me . 
At a short distance from the country house , a convent of dervishes was situated , and the superior , or scheih , was the doorkeeper's friend . 
Meanwhile the Indian had turned the horse in such a direction that , before many hours had passed , it had entered a wood close to the capital of the kingdom of Cashmere . 
At first , when the princess had found herself alone , the idea had occurred to her of trying to escape and hide herself . 
But as she had eaten scarcely anything since she had left Bengal , she felt she was too weak to venture far , and was obliged to abandon her design . 
On the return of the Indian with meats of various kinds , she began to eat voraciously , and soon had regained sufficient courage to reply with spirit to his insolent remarks . 
The Indian rudely answered that it was his wife , and there was no occasion for anyone else to interfere between them . 
The princess , who , of course , was ignorant of the rank of her deliverer , denied altogether the Indian's story . 
My lord , she cried , whoever you may be , put no faith in this impostor . 
He is an abominable magician , who has this day torn me from the Prince of Persia , my destined husband , and has brought me here on this enchanted horse . 
But rescued though she was from one peril , it seemed as if she had only fallen into another . 
Then , without allowing her time to thank him for all he had done , he bade her repose , saying she should tell him her adventures on the following day . 
The princess fell asleep , flattering herself that she had only to relate her story for the Sultan to be touched by compassion , and to restore her to the prince without delay . 
But a few hours were to undeceive her . 
This unexpected announcement caused the princess such terror that she sank down in a dead faint . 
So she began by saying all sorts of absurdities , and using all kinds of strange gestures , while the Sultan stood watching her with sorrow and surprise . 
But as this sudden seizure showed no sign of abating , he left her to her women , ordering them to take the greatest care of her . 
Still , as the day went on , the malady seemed to become worse , and by night it was almost violent . 
Days passed in this manner , till at last the Sultan of Cashmere decided to summon all the doctors of his court to consult together over her sad state . 
When the Sultan of Cashmere saw that the court doctors could do nothing towards curing the princess , he called in those of the city , who fared no better . 
When he knew that he had at last found the princess whom he had so long lost , he set about devising a plan for her rescue . 
The chief usher assured him that he was heartily welcome , and that the Sultan would receive him with pleasure and in case of success , he would gain a magnificent reward . 
He then led the prince up to a room under the roof , which had an opening through which he might observe the princess , without himself being seen . 
The Sultan made no difficulty in consenting to this , and commanded that he should be ushered in to the princess's apartment . 
The moment she caught sight of his physician's robe , she sprang from her seat in a fury , and heaped insults upon him . 
If necessary , she added , she had resolved to die sooner than permit herself to be forced into such a union , and break faith with a prince whom she loved . 
The prince then inquired if she knew what had become of the enchanted horse since the Indian's death , but the princess could only reply that she had heard nothing about it . 
Still she did not suppose that the horse could have been forgotten by the Sultan , after all she had told him of its value . 
To this the prince agreed , and they consulted together over a plan by which she might be able to make her escape and return with him into Persia . 
And as the first step , she was to dress herself with care , and receive the Sultan with civility when he visited her next morning . 
Then he retired , without awaiting any reply from the princess . 
Sire , replied the physician , your Highness's tale has supplied me with the clue I needed to complete the recovery of the princess . 
And in order to make the spectacle as impressive as possible , I would suggest that she should be richly dressed and covered with the noblest jewels of the crown . 
When all was ready , the Sultan appeared , and took his place on a platform , surrounded by the chief nobles and officers of his court . 
When they were seated , the Princess of Bengal was seen leaving the palace , accompanied by the ladies who had been assigned to her by the Sultan . 
She slowly approached the enchanted horse , and with the help of her ladies , she mounted on its back . 
Then he crossed his hands over his breast , and with lowered eyes walked three times round the horse , muttering the while certain words . 
Soon there arose from the burning braziers a thick smoke which almost concealed both the horse and princess , and this was the moment for which he had been waiting . 
Judging from the few words that reached his ear , they were each explaining what sort of men they wished to marry . 
I ask nothing better , cried the eldest , than to have the Sultan's baker for a husband . 
I , replied the second sister , should be quite content with the Sultan's head cook . 
What delicate stews I should feast upon ! And , as I am persuaded that the Sultan's bread is used all through the palace , I should have that into the bargain . 
You see , my dear sister , my taste is as good as yours . 
It was now the turn of the youngest sister , who was by far the most beautiful of the three , and had , besides , more sense than the other two . 
As for me , she said , I should take a higher flight and if we are to wish for husbands , nothing less than the Sultan himself will do for me . 
The grand vizir fulfilled his commission , and hardly giving them time to change their dresses , desired the three sisters to follow him to the palace . 
You , he said , turning to the youngest , who desired to have me for an husband , shall be satisfied this very day . 
And you , he added , addressing himself to the other two , shall be married at the same moment to my baker and to my chief cook . 
I am unworthy of the honour you propose to do me , and I can only ask pardon for my boldness . 
The other sisters also tried to excuse themselves , but the Sultan would hear nothing . 
No , no , he said , my mind is made up . 
Your wishes shall be accomplished . 
So the three weddings were celebrated that same day , but with a great difference . 
As for her looking a little younger than we do , what does that matter ? You would have made a far better Sultana than she . 
They obtained permission of the Sultan to take up their abode in the palace for some weeks , and never left their sister night or day . 
Then , leaving it to its fate , they informed the Sultan that instead of the son he had so fondly desired the Sultana had given birth to a puppy . 
At this dreadful news the Sultan was so overcome with rage and grief that it was with great difficulty that the grand vizir managed to save the Sultana from his wrath . 
Go , he said to a gardener who was working near , and get that cradle out for me . 
The gardener did as he was bid , and soon placed the cradle in the hands of the intendant . 
And , bidding the man pick up the cradle and follow him , he turned towards home . 
My wife , he exclaimed as he entered the room , heaven has denied us any children , but here is one that has been sent in their place . 
Send for a nurse , and I will do what is needful publicly to recognise it as my son . 
Let her live , entreated the grand vizir , and banish her from your presence for the rest of her days . 
That in itself will be punishment enough . 
His first passion spent , the Sultan had regained his self command . 
Let her live then , he said , since you have it so much at heart . 
But if I grant her life it shall only be on one condition , which shall make her daily pray for death . 
Let a box be built for her at the door of the principal mosque , and let the window of the box be always open . 
There she shall sit , in the coarsest clothes , and every Mussulman who enters the mosque shall spit in her face in passing . 
Anyone that refuses to obey shall be exposed to the same punishment himself . 
You , vizir , will see that my orders are carried out . 
But the poor lady bore herself with so much dignity and meekness that it was not long before she had won the sympathy of those that were best among the crowd . 
But it is now time to return to the fate of the third baby , this time a princess . 
The intendant was careful to bring them up as befitted their real rank , and soon appointed a tutor to teach the young princes how to read and write . 
From that time all their studies were done in common . 
This park he filled with wild beasts of various sorts , so that the princes and princess might hunt as much as they pleased . 
When everything was ready , the intendant threw himself at the Sultan's feet , and after referring to his age and his long services , begged his Highness's permission to resign his post . 
This was granted by the Sultan in a few gracious words , and he then inquired what reward he could give to his faithful servant . 
But the intendant declared that he wished for nothing except the continuance of his Highness's favour , and prostrating himself once more , he retired from the Sultan's presence . 
Their sorrow for their father was very deep , and they lived quietly on in their new home , without feeling any desire to leave it for court gaieties or intrigues . 
One day the princes as usual went out to hunt , but their sister remained alone in her apartments . 
While they were gone an old Mussulman devotee appeared at the door , and asked leave to enter , as it was the hour of prayer . 
My good woman , said the princess pointing to a sofa , come and sit beside me . 
I am delighted at the opportunity of speaking for a few moments with so holy a person . 
Madam , replied the pilgrim , one must be hard indeed to please to find any fault . 
It is beautiful , comfortable and well ordered , and it is impossible to imagine anything more lovely than the garden . 
But since you ask me , I must confess that it lacks three things to make it absolutely perfect . 
And what can they be ? cried the princess . 
Only tell me , and I will lose no time in getting them . 
The three things , madam , replied the old woman , are , first , the Talking Bird , whose voice draws all other singing birds to it , to join in chorus . 
And second , the Singing Tree , where every leaf is a song that is never silent . 
Oh , how can I thank you , cried the princess , for telling me of such treasures ! But add , I pray you . 
to your goodness by further informing me where I can find them . 
Madam , replied the pilgrim , I should ill repay the hospitality you have shown me if I refused to answer your question . 
The three things of which I have spoken are all to be found in one place , on the borders of this kingdom , towards India . 
She then rose , and bidding farewell to the princess , went her way . 
And she was still thinking of the subject , and how delightful it would be to possess such rarities , when the princes , her brothers , returned from the chase . 
But there must be something , persisted Prince Bahman , for you to have changed so much during the short time we have been absent . 
Hide nothing from us , I beseech you , unless you wish us to believe that the confidence we have always had in one another is now to cease . 
These are the Talking Bird , the Singing Tree , and the Golden Water . 
After explaining the peculiar qualities of each , the princess continued It was a Mussulman devotee who told me all this , and where they might all be found . 
So counsel me , I pray , whom to send on the undertaking . 
My dear sister , replied Prince Bahman , that you should care about the matter is quite enough , even if we took no interest in it ourselves . 
The next morning Prince Bahman got up very early , and after bidding farewell to his brother and sister , mounted his horse . 
But just as he was about to touch it with his whip , he was stopped by a cry from the princess . 
Oh , perhaps after all you may never come back one never can tell what accidents may happen . 
My dear sister , answered the prince , accidents only happen to unlucky people , and I hope that I am not one of them . 
But as everything is uncertain , I promise you to be very careful . 
Take this knife , he continued , handing her one that hung sheathed from his belt , and every now and then draw it out and look at it . 
So saying , Prince Bahman bade them farewell once more , and started on the high road , well mounted and fully armed . 
For twenty days he rode straight on , turning neither to the right hand nor to the left , till he found himself drawing near the frontiers of Persia . 
Seated under a tree by the wayside he noticed a hideous old man , with a long white moustache , and beard that almost fell to his feet . 
His nails had grown to an enormous length , and on his head he wore a huge hat , which served him for an umbrella . 
The dervish smiled at his compliments , and thanked him for what he had done . 
Let me , he said , show you my gratitude for making me more comfortable by telling me what I can do for you . 
Gentle dervish , replied Prince Bahman , I come from far , and I seek the Talking Bird , the Singing Tree , and the Golden Water . 
I know that they are to be found somewhere in these parts , but I am ignorant of the exact spot . 
Tell me , I pray you , if you can , so that I may not have travelled on a useless quest . 
While he was speaking , the prince observed a change in the countenance of the dervish , who waited for some time before he made reply . 
But why not ? inquired the prince . 
What danger can there be ? The very greatest danger , answered the dervish . 
Other men , as brave as you , have ridden down this road , and have put me that question . 
I did my best to turn them also from their purpose , but it was of no use . 
Not one of them would listen to my words , and not one of them came back . 
Be warned in time , and seek to go no further . 
I am grateful to you for your interest in me , said Prince Bahman , and for the advice you have given , though I cannot follow it . 
When the dervish saw that the prince's mind was made up , he drew a ball from a bag that lay near him , and held it out . 
If it must be so , he said , with a sigh , take this , and when you have mounted your horse throw the ball in front of you . 
It will roll on till it reaches the foot of a mountain , and when it stops you will stop also . 
You will then throw the bridle on your horse's neck without any fear of his straying , and will dismount . 
If you do , you will instantly become a black stone like the rest . 
For those stones are in reality men like yourself , who have been on the same quest , and have failed , as I fear that you may fail also . 
That is all I have to say . 
You know what you have to do , and what to avoid , but if you are wise you will think of it no more , but return whence you have come . 
The prince smilingly shook his head , and thanking the dervish once more , he sprang on his horse and threw the ball before him . 
Then it came to a sudden halt , and the prince at once got down and flung the bridle on his horse's neck . 
He paused for a moment and looked round him at the masses of black stones with which the sides of the mountain were covered , and then began resolutely to ascend . 
He had hardly gone four steps when he heard the sound of voices around him , although not another creature was in sight . 
Who is this imbecile ? cried some , stop him at once . 
At first the prince took no heed to all this clamour , but continued to press forward on his way . 
Unfortunately this conduct , instead of silencing the voices , only seemed to irritate them the more , and they arose with redoubled fury , in front as well as behind . 
After some time he grew bewildered , his knees began to tremble , and finding himself in the act of falling , he forgot altogether the advice of the dervish . 
He turned to fly down the mountain , and in one moment became a black stone . 
As may be imagined , Prince Perviz and his sister were all this time in the greatest anxiety , and consulted the magic knife , not once but many times a day . 
Ah ! my beloved brother , cried the princess in horror , throwing the knife from her , I shall never see you again , and it is I who have killed you . 
Fool that I was to listen to the voice of that temptress , who probably was not speaking the truth . 
Terrified at the thought that she might lose her only remaining brother , the princess entreated him to give up his project , but he remained firm . 
Before setting out , however , he gave her a chaplet of a hundred pearls , and said , When I am absent , tell this over daily for me . 
But if you should find that the beads stick , so that they will not slip one after the other , you will know that my brother's fate has befallen me . 
Still , we must hope for better luck . 
That , holy dervish , replied Prince Perviz , was my elder brother , who is now dead , though how he died I cannot say . 
When Prince Perviz reached the foot of the mountain he jumped from his horse , and paused for a moment to recall the instructions the dervish had given him . 
This outrage entirely put the dervish's advice out of the prince's head . 
He drew his sword , and turned to avenge himself , but almost before he had realised that there was nobody there , he and his horse were two black stones . 
Give it up , I pray you , and return home , and do not ask me to help you to a cruel death . 
Holy father , answered the princess , I come from far , and I should be in despair if I turned back without having attained my object . 
Good dervish , answered the princess , I feel in my heart that I shall succeed , and it only remains for me to ask you the way I am to go . 
Then the dervish said that it was useless to say more , and he gave her the ball , which she flung before her . 
In spite of the cotton , some echoes of the voices reached her ears , but not so as to trouble her . 
As she spoke she took the cotton from her ears , for it was needed no longer . 
Brave lady , answered the bird , do not blame me for having joined my voice to those who did their best to preserve my freedom . 
Some day you will put me to the proof , for I know who you are better than you do yourself . 
Meanwhile , tell me what I can do , and I will obey you . 
Bird , replied the princess , who was filled with a joy that seemed strange to herself when she thought that the bird had cost her the lives of both her brothers . 
bird , let me first thank you for your good will , and then let me ask you where the Golden Water is to be found . 
The bird described the place , which was not far distant , and the princess filled a small silver flask that she had brought with her for the purpose . 
But the tree was tall and strong , and it was hopeless to think of uprooting it . 
You need not do that , said the bird , when she had returned to ask counsel . 
Break off a twig , and plant it in your garden , and it will take root , and grow into a magnificent tree . 
When the Princess Parizade held in her hands the three wonders promised her by the old woman , she said to the bird All that is not enough . 
It was owing to you that my brothers became black stones . 
I cannot tell them from the mass of others , but you must know , and point them out to me , I beg you , for I wish to carry them away . 
For some reason that the princess could not guess these words seemed to displease the bird , and he did not answer . 
However , I will do my best . 
If you look round , he went on , you will see a pitcher standing near . 
Take it , and , as you go down the mountain , scatter a little of the water it contains over every black stone and you will soon find your two brothers . 
Princess Parizade took the pitcher , and , carrying with her besides the cage the twig and the flask , returned down the mountain side . 
At every black stone she stopped and sprinkled it with water , and as the water touched it the stone instantly became a man . 
When she suddenly saw her brothers before her her delight was mixed with astonishment . 
Why , what are you doing here ? she cried . 
We have been asleep , they said . 
Yes , returned the princess , but without me your sleep would probably have lasted till the day of judgment . 
These gentlemen , and yourselves , and all your horses were changed into these stones , and I have delivered you by sprinkling you with the water from this pitcher . 
On hearing these words Prince Bahman and Prince Perviz understood all they owed their sister , and the knights who stood by declared themselves her slaves and ready to carry out her wishes . 
Then they rode away , followed by the knights and gentlemen , who begged to be permitted to escort them . 
The branch she planted in a corner near the house , and in a few days it had grown into a great tree . 
The fame of these wonders soon spread abroad , and people came from far and near to see and admire . 
After a few days Prince Bahman and Prince Perviz fell back into their ordinary way of life , and passed most of their time hunting . 
They threw themselves from their horses and prostrated themselves to the earth , but the Sultan was curious to see their faces , and commanded them to rise . 
You seem fond of hunting , answered the Sultan . 
The Sultan was delighted with this remark , and said at once , In that case I shall take great pleasure in watching you . 
Come , choose what sort of beasts you would like to hunt . 
The princes jumped on their horses and followed the Sultan at a little distance . 
Both used their javelins with such skill that , directly they arrived within striking range , the lion and the bear fell , pierced through and through . 
Then Prince Perviz pursued a lion and Prince Bahman a bear , and in a very few minutes they , too , lay dead . 
Besides , your courage and manners have so won my heart that I will not have you expose yourselves to further danger . 
I am convinced that some day or other I shall find you useful as well a agreeable . 
Ask her advice , then , replied the Sultan , and to morrow come and hunt with me , and give me your answer . 
The two princes returned home , but their adventure made so little impression on them that they quite forgot to speak to their sister on the subject . 
The next morning when they went to hunt they met the Sultan in the same place , and he inquired what advice their sister had given . 
The young men looked at each other and blushed . 
At last Prince Bahman said , Sire , we must throw ourselves on your Highness's mercy . 
Neither my brother nor myself remembered anything about it . 
Then be sure you do not forget to day , answered the Sultan , and bring me back your reply to morrow . 
When , however , the same thing happened a second time , they feared that the Sultan might be angry with them for their carelessness . 
The Princess Parizade was much disturbed at the news , and did not conceal her feelings . 
It is on my account , I know , that you have resisted the Sultan's wishes , and I am very grateful to you for it . 
But kings do not like to have their offers refused , and in time he would bear a grudge against you , which would render me very unhappy . 
Consult the Talking Bird , who is wise and far seeing , and let me hear what he says . 
So the bird was sent for and the case laid before him . 
The princes must on no account refuse the Sultan's proposal , said he , and they must even invite him to come and see your house . 
Then the Sultan will have to see me , said the princess . 
The bird answered that it was necessary that he should see her , and everything would turn out for the best . 
If they were my own sons , he said to himself , they could not be better educated ! and aloud he complimented them on their learning and taste for knowledge . 
Cucumbers stuffed with pearls ! exclaimed the princess . 
Mistress , replied the bird , do what I tell you and nothing but good will come of it . 
The princess had faith in the bird , who generally proved to be right , and taking the gardener with her early next morning followed out his directions carefully . 
After digging for some time they came upon a golden box fastened with little clasps . 
These were easily undone , and the box was found to be full of pearls , not very large ones , but well shaped and of a good colour . 
So leaving the gardener to fill up the hole he had made under the tree , the princess took up the box and returned to the house . 
The two princes had seen her go out , and had wondered what could have made her rise so early . 
Full of curiosity they got up and dressed , and met their sister as she was returning with the box under her arm . 
Then , on the way back to the palace , she told them of her consultation with the bird , and the advice it had given her . 
It consists of a stuffed cucumber , and the stuffing is to be made of these pearls . 
The head cook , who had never in all his experience heard of such a dish , stepped back in amazement . 
You think I am mad , answered the princess , who perceived what was in his mind . 
But I know quite well what I am doing . 
Go , and do your best , and take the pearls with you . 
The next morning the princes started for the forest , and were soon joined by the Sultan . 
The hunt began and continued till mid day , when the heat became so great that they were obliged to leave off . 
They are all worthy one of the other , he said to himself , and I am not surprised that they think so much of her opinions . 
I must know more of them . 
By this time the princess had recovered from the first embarrassment of meeting , and proceeded to make her speech of welcome . 
This is only a simple country house , sire , she said , suitable to people like ourselves , who live a quiet life . 
It cannot compare with the great city mansions , much less , of course , with the smallest of the Sultan's palaces . 
I cannot quite agree with you , he replied even the little that I have seen I admire greatly , and I will reserve my judgment until you have shown me the whole . 
The princess then led the way from room to room , and the Sultan examined everything carefully . 
Do you call this a simple country house ? he said at last . 
Why , if every country house was like this , the towns would soon be deserted . 
I am no longer astonished that you do not wish to leave it . 
Let us go into the gardens , which I am sure are no less beautiful than the rooms . 
A small door opened straight into the garden , and the first object that met the Sultan's eyes was the Golden Water . 
He went forward to examine it , and when he had satisfied his curiosity , the princess conducted him towards the Singing Tree . 
As they drew near , the Sultan was startled by the sound of strange voices , but could see nothing . 
The Sultan did as he was told , and was so wrapt in delight at what he heard that he stood some time in silence . 
Its history is mixed up with those of the Golden Water and the Talking Bird , which you have not yet seen . 
If your Highness wishes I will tell you the whole story , when you have recovered from your fatigue . 
Indeed , madam , returned he , you show me so many wonders that it is impossible to feel any fatigue . 
Let us go once more and look at the Golden Water and I am dying to see the Talking Bird . 
The Sultan could hardly tear himself away from the Golden Water , which puzzled him more and more . 
You say , he observed to the princess , that this water does not come from any spring , neither is brought by pipes . 
All I understand is , that neither it nor the Singing Tree is a native of this country . 
What is more astonishing is , that I only emptied a small flaskful into the basin , and it increased to the quantity you now see . 
Well , I will look at it no more to day , said the Sultan . 
Take me to the Talking Bird . 
And the birds crowd to this spot , to add their songs to his . 
The Sultan stepped through the window , but the bird took no notice , continuing his song as before . 
My slave , said the princess , this is the Sultan make him a pretty speech . 
The bird stopped singing at once , and all the other birds stopped too . 
The Sultan is welcome , he said . 
I wish him long life and all prosperity . 
The Sultan , noticing that his favourite dish of cucumber was placed before him , proceeded to help himself to it , and was amazed to and that the stuffing was of pearls . 
I believed it , answered the Sultan , because the women attending on her told me so . 
Have them examined , and they will confess their crime . 
These are your children , who were saved from death by the intendant of your gardens , and brought up by him as if they were his own . 
Like a flash the truth came to the mind of the Sultan . 
Bird , he cried , my heart tells me that what you say is true . 
To morrow I will bring you the Sultana your mother . 
Be ready to receive her . 
The Sultan then mounted his horse and rode quickly back to the capital . 
Without an instant's delay he sent for the grand vizir , and ordered him to seize and question the Sultana's sisters that very day . 
They were confronted with each other and proved guilty , and were executed in less than an hour . 
Come with me , and take back your position and all the honour that is due to you . 
Early next day the Sultan and Sultana , dressed in robes of state and followed by all the court , set out for the country house of their children . 
Here the Sultan presented them to the Sultana one by one , and for some time there was nothing but embraces and tears and tender words . 
As to the Talking Bird , she had already made acquaintance with him . 
In the evening they rode together back to the capital , the princes on each side of their father , and the princess with her mother . 
And in this manner they came back to their father's palace . 
