CONTENTS PROLOGUE PART I. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES AIR THEIR GRIEVANCES II . 
THE PRINCIPLES , HAVING SETTLED THEIR DIFFERENCES , FINISH THE JOB III . 
CROSS COUNTRY CHAPTER I. FLIGHT II . 
PROPELLERS V. MAINTENANCE TYPES OF AEROPLANES GLOSSARY THE AEROPLANE SPEAKS PROLOGUE PART I THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES AIR THEIR GRIEVANCES The Lecture Hall at the Royal Flying Corps School for Officers was deserted . 
The pupils had dispersed , and the Officer Instructor , more fagged than any pupil , was out on the aerodrome watching the test of a new machine . 
Deserted , did I say ? But not so . 
The lecture that day had been upon the Elementary Principles of Flight , and they lingered yet . 
Upon the Blackboard was the illustration you see in the frontispiece . 
I am the side view of a Surface , '' it said , mimicking the tones of the lecturer . 
Flight is secured by driving me through the air at an angle inclined to the direction of motion . 
'' Quite right , '' said the Angle . 
That's me , and I'm the famous Angle of Incidence . 
'' This is where I come in , '' a thick , gruff voice was heard , and went on I'm the Reaction . 
You can't have action without me . 
I'm a very considerable force , and my direction is at right angles to you , '' and he looked heavily at the Surface . 
Like this , '' said he , picking up the chalk with his Lift , and drifting to the Blackboard . 
That's because I am the result of not only the mass of air displaced , but also the result of the Speed with which the Surface engages the Air . 
Oh , I'm a most complex and interesting personality , I assure you in fact , a dual personality , a sort of aeronautical Dr . 
There's Lift , my vertical part or COMPONENT , as those who prefer long words would say he always acts vertically upwards , and hates Gravity like poison . 
He's the useful and admirable part of me . 
'' And I , '' said the Propeller , I screw through the air and produce the Thrust . 
'' Well , '' eagerly replied the Lift and the Thrust , let's be friends . 
Do tell us what we can do to help you to overcome Gravity and Drift with the least possible Power . 
'' Buck up , old dear ! '' This from several new comers , who had just appeared . 
We'll help you , '' and one of them , so lean and long that he took up the whole height of the lecture room , introduced himself . 
I'm the High Aspect Ratio , '' he said , and what we have got to do to help this young lady is to improve the proportion of Lift to Drift . 
Now it is a fact that , if the Surface is shaped to have the greatest possible span , i . 
, distance from wing tip to wing tip , it then engages more air and produces both a maximum Reaction and a better proportion of Lift to Drift . 
So what I say is , make the surface of Infinite Span with no width or chord , as they call it . 
That's all I require , I assure you , to make me quite perfect and of infinite service to Miss Efficiency . 
'' That's not practical politics , '' said the Surface . 
The way you talk one would think you were drawing L a year at Westminster , and working up a reputation as an Aeronautical Expert . 
to be just right for the Angle of Incidence . 
That would spoil the Lift Drift Ratio more than you can help it . 
Just thrust that chalk along , will you ? and the Blackboard will show you what I mean . 
'' Well , '' said the Aspect Ratio , have it your own way , though I'm sorry to see a pretty young lady like Efficiency compromised so early in the game . 
Now , '' excitedly , place another Surface on top of us . 
Now do you see ? There is double the Surface , and that being so , the proportion of Weight to Surface area is halved . 
That's less burden of work for the Surface , and so the Spars need not be so strong and so deep , which results in not so thick a Surface . 
That means the Chord can be proportionately decreased without adversely affecting the Camber . 
With the Chord decreased , the Span becomes relatively greater , and so produces a splendid Aspect Ratio , and an excellent proportion of Lift to Drift . 
'' Remember me also , please , '' croaked the Angle of Incidence . 
Since the Surface has now less weight to carry for its area , I may be set at a still lesser and finer Angle . 
That means less Drift again . 
We are certainly getting on splendidly ! Show us how it looks now , Blackboard . 
'' And the Blackboard obligingly showed them as follows Well , what do you think of that ? '' they all cried to the Drift . 
You think you are very clever , '' sneered the Drift . 
But you are not helping Efficiency as much as you think . 
You see it's not quite so easy as you thought . 
'' At this moment a hiccough was heard , and a rather fast and rakish looking chap , named Stagger , spoke up . 
How d'ye do , miss , '' he said politely to Efficiency , with a side glance out of his wicked old eye . 
I'm a bit of a knut , and without the slightest trouble I can easily minimize the disadvantage that old reprobate Drift has been frightening you with . 
I just stagger the top Surface a bit forward , and no longer is that suction effect dead under it . 
At the same time I'm sure the top Surface will kindly extend its Span for such distance as its Spars will support it without the aid of Struts . 
Such extension will be quite useful , as there will be no Surface at all underneath it to interfere with the Reaction above . 
Just consider that contraption in the light of any one Principle , and I warrant you will not find one of them applied to perfection . 
The whole thing is nothing but a Compromise . 
'' And he glared fixedly at poor Efficiency . 
Oh , dear ! Oh , dear ! '' she cried . 
I'm always getting into trouble . 
What WILL the Designer say ? '' Never mind , my dear , '' said the Lift Drift Ratio , consolingly . 
You are improving rapidly , and quite useful enough now to think of doing a job of work . 
'' Well , that's good news , '' and Efficiency wiped her eyes with her Fabric and became almost cheerful . 
, increases approximately as the square of the speed , but it carries with it no lift as it does in the case of the Surface . 
Apart from that , we shall require a larger Angle of Incidence than in the case of a machine designed purely for speed , and that means a correspondingly LARGE CAMBER . 
So you see the essentials for CLIMB or quick ascent and for SPEED are diametrically opposed . 
Now which is it to be ? '' Nothing but perfection for me , '' said Efficiency . 
What I want is Maximum Climb and Maximum Speed for the Power the Engine produces . 
'' And each Principle fully agreed with her beautiful sentiments , but work together they would not . 
The Aspect Ratio wanted infinite Span , and hang the Chord . 
There was , indeed , the makings of a very pretty quarrel when the Letter arrived . 
It was about a mile long , and began to talk at once . 
I'm from the Inventor , '' he said , and hope rose in the heart of each heated Principle . 
, will you ? '' Said the Letter with dignity , I come from an Inventor so brilliantly clever as to be far above the unimportant matters you mention . 
He is no common working man , sir ! He leaves such things to Mechanics . 
'' Thud ! What was that ? Efficiency had fainted dead away ! The last blow had been too much for her . 
And the Principles gathered mournfully round , but with the aid of the Propeller Slip and a friendly lift from the Surface she was at length revived and regained a more normal aspect . 
Such give back'' is known as slip , '' and anyone behind the propellor will feel the slip as a strong draught of air . 
'' Well , that sounds so common sense , '' sighed Efficiency , I suppose it must be true , and if the Designer is satisfied , that's all I really care about . 
Now do let's get on with the job . 
'' So the Chalk drew a nice long slim body to hold the Engine and the tanks , etc . 
, with room for the Pilot's and Passenger's seats , and placed it exactly in the middle of the Biplane . 
In this way it would in a measure pull the nose of the Aeroplane up and counterbalance the nose heavy'' tendency . 
And the Camber was such that , as far as it was concerned , the Lift Drift Ratio should be the best possible for that Angle of Incidence . 
And a beautifully simple under carriage was added , the outstanding features of which were simplicity , strength , light weight , and minimum drift . 
And , last of all , there was the Elevator , of which you will hear more by and by . 
And this is what it looked like then And Efficiency , smiling , thought that it was not such a bad compromise after all and that the Designer might well be satisfied . 
Now , '' said she , there's just one or two points I'm a bit hazy about . 
It appears that when the Propeller shaft is horizontal and so working in its most efficient attitude , I shall have a Lift from the Surfaces slightly in excess of the Weight . 
That means I shall ascend slightly , at the same time making nearly maximum speed for the power and thrust . 
In order to ascend more quickly the Pilot will deflect the Elevator , which , by the way , you see hinged to the Tail . 
By that means he will force the whole Aeroplane to assume a greater Angle of Incidence . 
And with greater Angle , the Lift will increase , though I'm sorry to say the Drift will increase also . 
An air screw revolving upon a vertical axis . 
Then , if the Pilot is green , my chance will come , '' said the Maximum Angle of Incidence . 
The Margin of Lift will have entirely disappeared , and there we shall be , staggering along at my tremendous angle , and only just maintaining horizontal flight . 
'' And then with luck I'll get my chance , '' said the Drift . 
If he is a bit worse than green , he'll perhaps still further increase the Angle . 
Then the Drift , largely increasing , the Speed , and consequently the Lift , will become still less , i . 
, less than the Weight , and then what price pancakes , eh ? '' Pancakes Pilot's slang for stalling an aeroplane and dropping like a pancake . 
Thank you , '' from Efficiency , that was all most informing . 
And now will you tell me , please , how the greatest Speed may be secured ? '' Certainly , now it's my turn , '' piped the Minimum Angle of Incidence . 
Then we get our greatest Speed , just maintaining horizontal flight . 
'' Thank you so much , '' said Efficiency . 
There was Centrifugal Force , too , who would not sit still and created a most unfavourable impression , and Keel Surface , the Dihedral Angle , and several other lesser fry . 
Well , '' said Centrifugal Force , I wish this Efficiency I've heard so much about would get a move on . 
Sitting still doesn't agree with me at all . 
There's nothing like motion the more the better . 
'' We are entirely opposed to that , '' objected the three Stabilities , all in a breath . 
Unless it's in a perfectly straight line or a perfect circle . 
Nothing but perfectly straight lines or , upon occasion , perfect circles satisfy us , and we are strongly suspicious of your tendencies . 
'' Well , we shall see what we shall see , '' said the Force darkly . 
He objects to skin friction , and insisted upon me changing my fabric for one of a smoother surface , and that delayed me . 
Dear me , there are a lot more of us to day , aren't there ? I think I had better meet one at a time . 
'' And turning to Directional Stability , she politely asked him what he preferred to do . 
Morane parasol A type of Morane monoplane in which the lifting surfaces are raised above the pilot in order to afford him a good view of the earth . 
Skin friction is that part of the drift due to the friction of the air with roughnesses upon the surface of the aeroplane . 
'' Oh , now I begin to see light , '' said she but just exactly how does it work ? '' I'll answer that , '' said Momentum . 
When perhaps by a gust of air the Aeroplane is blown out of its course and points in another direction , it doesn't immediately fly off on that new course . 
I'm so strong I pull it off the new course to a certain extent , and towards the direction of the old course . 
And so it travels , as long as my strength lasts , in a more or less sideways position . 
'' I see , '' said Efficiency , and , daintily holding the Chalk , she approached the Blackboard . 
And the right hand Surface being on the outside of the turn would have more speed , and consequently more Lift , than the Surface on the other side . 
travelling through the air with greater speed than the left hand wing . 
It is then only necessary to warp the Elevator , as shown in illustration C , in order to bring the Aeroplane into a proper attitude relative to the earth . 
'' Ah ! '' said the Rudder , looking wise , it's in a case like that when I become the Elevator and the Elevator becomes me . 
'' That's absurd nonsense , '' said the Blackboard , due to looseness of thought and expression . 
Those are your respective jobs , and you can't possibly change them about . 
Such talk only leads to confusion , and I hope we shall hear no more of it . 
'' Thanks , '' said Efficiency to Lateral Stability . 
And now , please , will you explain your duties ? '' My duty is to keep the Aeroplane horizontal from Wing tip to Wing tip . 
Well , '' he replied , rather miserably , I'm not nearly so perfect as the Longitudinal and Directional Stabilities . 
The Blackboard will show you the argument . 
, or the side upon which there is an excess will get blown over by the gusts . 
It strikes me that my future isn't very promising , and about my only chance is when the Junior Draughtsman makes a mistake , as he did the other day . 
Then all they could do was to give me a larger Angle . 
But now there is too much Keel Surface above , and the whole thing's a Bad Compromise , not at all like Our Efficiency . 
'' And Efficiency , blushing very prettily at the compliment , then asked , And how does the Centre of Gravity affect matters ? '' That's easy , '' said Grandfather Gravity . 
, tilted sideways for a turn , and Centrifugal Force sets me going the way I'm not wanted to go . 
No I get on best with Lateral Stability when my Centre is right on the centre of Drift , or , at any rate , not much below it . 
Banking When an aeroplane is turned to the left or the right the centrifugal force of its momentum causes it to skid sideways and outwards away from the centre of the turn . 
To minimize such action the pilot banks , i . 
, tilts , the aeroplane sideways in order to oppose the underside of the planes to the air . 
The aeroplane will not then skid outwards beyond the slight skid necessary to secure a sufficient pressure of air to balance the centrifugal force . 
Here's the Tail Surface , '' he said , and in order to help me it must be set IN EFFECT at a much less Angle of Incidence than the Main Surface . 
To explain we must trouble the Blackboard again , '' and this was his effort I have tried to make that as clear as possible , '' he said . 
It may appear a bit complicated at first , but if you will take the trouble to look at it for a minute you will find it quite simple . 
A is the normal and proper direction of motion of the Aeroplane , but , owing to a gust of air , it takes up the new nose down position . 
Then , such being the case , the Tail must fall and the Aeroplane assume its normal position again , though probably at a slightly lower altitude . 
'' I'm afraid I'm very stupid , '' said Efficiency , but please tell me why you lay stress upon the words IN EFFECT . 
'' Ah ! I was wondering if you would spot that , '' he replied . 
And there is a very good reason for it . 
The Tail is then for its surface getting less Lift than the Main Surface , although set at the same angle on the machine . 
It may then be said to have IN EFFECT a less Angle of Incidence . 
I'll just show you on the Blackboard . 
'' Well , '' said the Ailerons , if it's not done it will mean more work for the Rudder , and that won't please the Pilot . 
'' Whatever do you mean ? '' asked Efficiency . 
on the top of the Surface . 
If there is more Drift , i . 
And now let me see if I can sketch the completed Aeroplane . 
'' An explanation of the way in which the wash out is combined with a wash in to offset propellor torque will be found on p . 
Well , I hope that's all as it should be , '' she concluded , for to morrow the Great Test in the air is due . 
'' PART III THE GREAT TEST It is five o'clock of a fine calm morning , when the Aeroplane is wheeled out of its shed on to the greensward of the Military Aerodrome . 
Just the kind of morning beloved of pilots . 
Clean looking 'bus , looks almost alive and impatient to be off . 
Ought to have a turn for speed with those lines . 
'' Yes , '' replies the Flight Commander , it's the latest of its type and looks a beauty . 
Give it a good test . 
A special report is required on this machine . 
A. M. 's Air Mechanics . 
That's likely to cause a green pilot to stall the Aeroplane . 
Pancake , they call it . 
I'm not sure of my rubber connections either . 
'' Oh , shut up ! '' cry all the Wires in unison , haven't we got our troubles too ? We're in the most horrible state of tension . 
It's simply murdering our Factor of Safety , and how we can possibly stand it when we get the Lift only the Designer knows . 
'' That's all right , '' squeak all the little Wire loops , we're that accommodating , we're sure to elongate a bit and so relieve your tension . 
Elongate , you little devils , would you ? '' fairly shout the Angles of Incidence , Dihedral and Stagger , amid a chorus of groans from all parts of the Aeroplane . 
What's going to happen to us then ? How are we going to keep our adjustments upon which good flying depends ? '' Butt us and screw us , '' wail the Wires . 
Butt us and screw us , and death to the Loops . 
That's what we sang to the Designer , but he only looked sad and scowled at the Directors . 
'' Butt means to thicken at the end . 
And who on earth are they ? '' asked the Loops , trembling for their troublesome little lives . 
Oh earth indeed , '' sniffed Efficiency , who had not spoken before , having been rendered rather shy by being badly compromised in the Drawing Office . 
I'd like to get some of them up between Heaven and Earth , I would . 
I'd give 'em something to think of besides their Debits and Credits but all the same the Designer will get his way in the end . 
'' Then she abruptly subsides , feeling that perhaps the less said the better until she has made a reputation in the Air . 
The matter of that Compromise still rankled , and indeed it does seem hardly fit that a bold bad Tin god should flirt with Efficiency . 
All this time the Pilot is carefully buckling his belt and making himself perfectly easy and comfortable , as all good pilots do . 
Deviation curve A curved line indicating any errors in the compass . 
Petrol on ? '' shouts the Fitter to the Pilot . 
Petrol on , '' replies the Pilot . 
Ignition off ? '' Ignition off . 
'' Round goes the Propeller , the Engine sucking in the Petrol Vapour with satisfied gulps . 
And then Contact ? '' from the Fitter . 
Contact , '' says the Pilot . 
Now one swing of the Propeller by the Fitter , and the Engine is awake and working . 
Slowly at first though , and in a weak voice demanding , Not too much Throttle , please . 
I'm very cold and mustn't run fast until my Oil has thinned and is circulating freely . 
Three minutes slowly , as you love me , Pilot . 
'' Faster and faster turn the Engine and Propeller , and the Aeroplane , trembling in all its parts , strains to jump the blocks and be off . 
Carefully the Pilot listens to what the Engine Revolution Indicator says . 
At last , Steady at , revs . 
and I'll pick up the rest in the Air . 
Then , giving the official signal , he sees the blocks removed from the wheels , and the Flight Sergeant saluting he knows that all is clear to ascend . 
One more signal , and all the A. M. 's run clear of the Aeroplane . 
Ah ! '' says the Wind screen , that's Discipline , that is . 
Through my little window I see most things , and don't I just know that poor discipline always results in poor work in the air , and don't you forget it . 
'' Discipline is it ? '' complains the Under carriage , as its wheels roll swiftly over the rather rough ground . 
Below is left the Earth with all its bumps and troubles . 
Now is the mighty voice of the Engine heard as he turns the Propeller nine hundred times a minute . 
'' But the Turnbuckles are locked too fast to turn their eyes or utter a word . 
Only the Locking Wires thus Ha ! ha ! the Rigger knew his job . 
He knew the trick , and there's no release here . 
'' For an expert rigger will always use the locking wire in such a way as to oppose the slightest tendency of the turnbuckle to unscrew . 
I'm an Irishman , I am , and if my coat comes off Yes , Irish , I said . 
I used to come from Egypt , but I've got naturalized since the War began . 
'' Then the Air Speed Indicator catches the eye of the Pilot . 
Good enough , '' he says as he gently deflects the Elevator and points the nose of the Aeroplane upwards in search of the elusive Best Climbing Angle . 
Ha ! ha ! '' shouts the Drift , growing stronger with the increased Angle of Incidence . 
Ha ! ha ! '' he laughs to the Thrust . 
Now who's Master ? '' And the Propeller shrieks hysterically , Oh ! look at me . 
Where's Efficiency ? '' And she can only sadly reply , Yes , indeed , but you see we're a Compromise . 
'' And the Drift has hopes of reaching the Maximum Angle of Incidence and vanquishing the Thrust and the Lift . 
And he grows very bold as he strangles the Thrust but the situation is saved by the Propeller , who is now bravely helicopting skywards , somewhat to the chagrin of Efficiency . 
Much ado about nothing , '' quotes the Aeroplane learnedly . 
Compromise or not , I'm climbing a thousand feet a minute . 
'' And so indeed it was . 
And lo ! the Aeroplane has almost reached the clouds ! But what's this ? A sudden gust , and down sinks one wing and up goes the other . 
A fall in such a position is known as a side slip . 
My eye ! '' ejaculates the Wind screen , talk about a view ! '' And indeed mere words will always fail to express the wonder of it . 
Six thousand feet up now , and look ! The sun is rising quicker than ever mortal on earth witnessed its ascent . 
The sun rises and they take on all colours , blending one with the other , from dazzling white to crimson and deep violet blue . 
The tops of the hills now laugh to the light of the sun , but the valleys are still mysterious dark blue caverns , clowned with white filmy lace like streaks of vapour . 
And withal the increasing sense with altitude of vast , clean , silent solitudes of space . 
Up , up , up , and still up , unfalteringly speeds the Pilot and his mount . 
Sweet the drone of the Engine and steady the Thrust as the Propeller exultingly battles with the Drift . 
No longer is the ascent at the rate of a thousand feet a minute , and the Propeller complains to the Engine , I'm losing my Revs . 
Buck up with the Power , for the Lift is decreasing , though the Weight remains much the same . 
'' Quoth the Engine I strangle for Air . 
Oh , where is he who will invent a contrivance to keep me supplied with Air of right density and quality ? It should not be impossible within certain limits . 
'' We fully agree , '' said the dying Power and Thrust . 
Only maintain Us and you shall be surprised at the result . 
Propellers with a pitch capable of being varied by the pilot are the dream of propeller designers . 
For explanation of slip'' see Chapter IV . 
Ah , Reader , smile not unbelievingly , as you smiled but a few years past . 
There may be greater wonders yet . 
Consider that as the speed increases , so does the momentum or stored up force in the mass of the aeroplane become terrific . 
And , bearing that in mind , remember that with altitude gravity decreases . 
There may yet be literally other worlds to conquer . 
'' And then , as he depresses the Elevator , the Aeroplane with relief assumes its normal horizontal position . 
Then , almost closing the Throttle , the Thrust dies away . 
Now , the nose of the Aeroplane should sink of its own volition , and the craft glide downward at flying speed , which is in this case a hundred miles an hour . 
Thus is the Aeroplane nose heavy'' as a glider , and just so to a degree ensuring a speed of glide equal to its flying speed . 
And the Air Speed Indicator is steady at one hundred miles an hour , and That's all right ! '' exclaims the Pilot . 
The latter he will manage with the rudder , controlled by his feet , and the Compass will tell him whether a straight course is kept . 
See the Medical Officer , you young Hun . 
Go and see a doctor . 
Vocal diarrhoea , that's your complaint , and a very nasty one too . 
Bad form , bad for discipline , and a nuisance in the Mess . 
What's your Regiment ? Special Reserve , you say ? Humph ! Sounds like Secondhand Bicycle Trade to me ! '' Box kite . 
The first crude form of biplane . 
Now the Pilot decides to change the straight gliding descent to a spiral one , and , obedient to the Rudder , the Aeroplane turns to the left . 
Down , down , down , and the air grows denser , and the Pilot gulps largely , filling his lungs with the heavier air to counteract the increasing pressure from without . 
The Struts and the Spars , which felt so awkward at first , have bedded themselves in their sockets , and are taking the compression stresses uncomplainingly . 
Well , what result ? '' calls the Flight Commander to the Pilot . 
A hundred miles an hour and a thousand feet a minute , '' he briefly replies . 
And a very good result too , '' says the Aeroplane , complacently , as he is carefully wheeled into his shed . 
That is the way Aeroplanes speak to those who love them and understand them . 
PART IV 'CROSS COUNTRY The Aeroplane had been designed and built , and tested in the air , and now stood on the Aerodrome ready for its first 'cross country flight . 
Thousands of pounds had been wasted on it , many had gone bankrupt over it , and others it had provided with safe fat jobs . 
Somehow , and despite every conceivable obstacle , it had managed to muddle through , and now it was ready for its work . 
It was not perfect , for there were fifty different ways in which it might be improved , some of them shamefully obvious . 
In short , quite a creditable machine , though of course the right man had not got the credit . 
It is rough , unsettled weather with a thirty mile an hour wind on the ground , and that means fifty more or less aloft . 
Lots of clouds at different altitudes to bother the Pilot , and the air none to clear for the observation of landmarks . 
As the Pilot and Observer approach the Aeroplane the former is clearly not in the best of tempers . 
Now some slack blighter will , I suppose , command it and get the credit of all my work ! '' Shut up , you grouser , '' said the Observer . 
Well ! It's a jolly good experience for most of us . 
Perhaps conceit won't be at quite such a premium after this war . 
And what's the use of grousing ? That never helped anyone . 
So buck up , old chap . 
Your day will come yet . 
Turning to the Flight Sergeant he inquires , Tank full of petrol and oil ? '' Yes , sir , '' he replies , and everything else all correct . 
up to mark , and all the control cables in perfect condition and tension . 
'' Very good , '' said the Pilot and then turning to the Observer , Before we start you had better have a look at the course I have mapped out . 
A is where we stand and we have to reach B , a hundred and fifty miles due North . 
I hope that's quite clear to you . 
It's a very simple way of calculating the compass course , and I always do it like that . 
'' Yes , that's plain enough . 
But there are any number of good landmarks such as lakes , rivers , towns , and railway lines . 
They will help to keep us on the right course , and the compass will , at any rate , prevent us from going far astray when between them . 
'' Well , we'd better be off , old chap . 
Round buzzes the Propeller , and the Pilot , giving the official signal , the Aeroplane is released and rolls swiftly over the ground in the teeth of the gusty wind . 
Swiftly he speeds away , and few thoughts he has now for the changing panorama of country , cloud , and colour . 
Ever present in his mind are the three great 'cross country queries . 
The roads , khaki coloured ribbons , are easily seen but are not of much use , for there are so many of them and they all look alike from such an altitude . 
What pilot is there indeed who has not many times experienced such unpleasant sensation ? Few things in the air can create greater anxiety . 
He must have slightly miscalculated the velocity or direction of the side wind . 
About ten degrees off , '' he mutters , and , using the Rudder , corrects his course accordingly . 
Now he feels happier and that he is well on his way . 
The clouds just above race by with dizzy and uniform speed the country below slowly unrolls , and the steady drone of the Engine is almost hypnotic in effect . 
Sleep , sleep , sleep , '' it insidiously suggests . 
Listen to me and watch the clouds there's nothing else to do . 
Dream , dream , dream of speeding through space for ever , and ever , and ever and rest , rest , rest to the sound of my rhythmical hum . 
Droning on and on , nothing whatever matters . 
All things now are merged into speed through space and a sleepy monotonous d d r r o o n n e . 
'' But the Pilot pulls himself together with a start and peers far ahead in search of the next landmark . 
This time it is a little country town . 
Some are not fairy places at all , but great dark ugly blots upon the fair countryside , and with tall shafts belching forth murky columns of smoke to defile clean space . 
Others , melancholy looking masses of grey , slate roofed houses , are always sad and dispirited never welcoming the glad sunshine , but ever calling for leaden skies and a weeping Heaven . 
Others again , little coquettes with village green , white palings everywhere , bright gravel roads , and an irrepressible air of brightness and gaiety . 
Then there are the rivers , silvery streaks peacefully winding far , far away to the distant horizon they and the lakes the finest landmarks the Pilot can have . 
The Pilot , flying on , is now anxiously looking for the railway line which midway on his journey should point the course . 
it plunges into the earth ! Well the writer remembers when that happened to him on a long 'cross country flight in the early days of aviation . 
Indeed , he should have seen it before , but the air is none too clear , and he is not yet able to discern the river which soon should cross his path . 
As he swiftly speeds on the air becomes denser and denser with what he fears must be the beginning of a sea fog , perhaps drifting inland along the course of the river . 
Now does he feel real anxiety , for it is the DUTY of a Pilot to fear fog , his deadliest enemy . 
Fog not only hides the landmarks by which he keeps his course , but makes the control of the Aeroplane a matter of the greatest difficulty . 
Throttling down the power of the engine he spirals downwards , keenly observing the country below . 
Now is perfect eyesight and a cool head indispensable . 
He sees and decides upon a field and , knowing his job , he sticks to that field with no change of mind to confuse him . 
Now running to the tail he lifts it up on to his shoulder , for the wind has become rough indeed and there is danger of the Aeroplane becoming unmanageable . 
By this action he decreases the angle at which the planes are inclined to the wind and so minimizes the latter's effect upon them . 
Then to the Observer , Hurry up , old fellow , and try to find some rope , wire , or anything with which to picket the machine . 
The wind is rising and I shan't be able to hold the 'bus steady for long . 
Don't forget the wire cutters . 
They're in the tool kit . 
'' And the Observer rushes off in frantic haste , before long triumphantly returning with a long length of wire from a neighbouring fence . 
What ho ! for a raid . 
What do you say ? '' All right , you cut along and I'll stop here , for the Aeroplane must not be left alone . 
Get back as quickly as possible . 
'' And the Observer trots off , leaving the Pilot filling his pipe and anxiously scrutinizing the weather conditions . 
Very thick it is now , but the day is yet young , and he has hopes of the fog lifting sufficiently to enable the flight to be resumed . 
, when aeroplanes were still more imperfect than they are now , and involuntary descents often a part of 'cross country flying . 
Wake up , you AIRMAN , '' the latter shouts . 
Here's the very thing the doctor ordered ! A basket of first class grub and something to keep the fog out , too . 
They can't help it , and even golf is a poor second to flight talk . 
Says the Pilot , who must have his grievance , Just observe where I managed to stop the machine . 
It's all the fault of the tail . 
There's hardly a type of Aeroplane in existence in which the tail could not be raised several feet , and that would make all the difference . 
High tails mean a large angle of incidence when the machine touches ground and , with enough angle , I'll guarantee to safely land the fastest machine in a five acre field . 
I'll take your word for it , '' hurriedly replies the Observer , whose soul isn't tuned to a technical key . 
As regards the latter part of your inquiry , '' went on the Pilot , a little nettled at having such a poor listener , it's very simple . 
'' By Jove , '' interrupts the Observer , I do believe the fog is lifting . 
Hadn't we better get the engine and body covers off , just in case it's really so ? '' I believe you're right . 
I am sure those hills over there could not be seen a few minutes ago , and look there's sunshine over there . 
'' Ten minutes' hard work and the covers are off , neatly folded and stowed aboard the picketing wires are cast adrift , and the Pilot is once more in his seat . 
The Aeroplane has been turned to face the other end of the field , and , the Observer swinging round the propeller , the engine is awake again and slowly ticking over . 
Arriving there the Pilot turns the Aeroplane in order to face the wind and thus secure a quick get off . 
Like a living thing it responds , and instantly leaves the ground , clearing the hedge like a well , like an Aeroplane with an excellent margin of lift . 
Upwards it climbs with even and powerful lift , and the familiar scenes below again gladden the eyes of the Pilot . 
Now they can see the river before them and a bay of the sea which must be crossed or skirted . 
The fog still lingers along the course of the river and between the hills , but is fast rolling away in grey , ghost like masses . 
Now the Aeroplane is almost over the river , and the next instant it suddenly drops into a hole in the air . 
Sandy soil , for instance , such as borders this river produces a quickly ascending column of air , whereas water and forests have not such a marked effect . 
Down through the reflection of the blue sky and clouds , and one might think that is all , but it isn't . 
A new world of sensation ! Now the bay is almost crossed and the Aerodrome at B can be distinguished . 
I hope they are all right , '' said someone , and that they haven't had difficulties with the fog . 
It rolled up very quickly , you know . 
'' Never fear , '' remarked a Flight Commander . 
I know the Pilot well and he's a good 'un far too good to carry on into a fog . 
, and has more or less had his own way . 
I wonder who he is . 
It seems strange we hear so little of him . 
'' Ah ! my boy . 
You do a bit more flying and you'll discover that things are not always as they appear from a distance ! '' There she is , sir ! '' cries the Flight Sergeant . 
Just a speck over the silvery corner of that cloud . 
Surely too far away , '' says a subaltern . 
It will be a wonderful machine if , from that distance and height , it can glide into the Aerodrome . 
Look , he's stopped the engine entirely . 
Glad to see you , '' says the Squadron Commander to the Pilot . 
How do you like the machine ? '' And the Pilot replies I never want a better one , sir . 
It almost flies itself ! '' And the Designer turns his face homewards and towards his beloved drawing office well satisfied , but still dreaming dreams of the future and . 
looking far ahead whom should he see but Efficiency at last coming towards him ! And to him she is all things . 
In her hair is the morning sunshine her eyes hold the blue of the sky , and on her cheeks is the pearly tint of the clouds as seen from above . 
The passion of speed , the lure of space , the sense of power , and the wonder of the future . 
all these things she holds for him . 
Ah ! '' he cries . 
And that's the end of the Prologue . 
, inertia , and momentum . 
It therefore obeys Newton's laws and resists movement . 
It is that resistance or reaction which makes flight possible . 
See Newton's laws in the Glossary at the end of the book . 
Flight is secured by driving through the air a surface inclined upwards and towards the direction of motion . 
See Aerofoil'' in the Glossary . 
S Side view of surface . 
The Chord is , for practical purposes , taken to be a straight line from the leading edge of the surface to its trailing edge . 
N A line through the surface starting from its trailing edge . 
The position of this line , which I call the Neutral Lift Line , is found by means of wind tunnel research , and it varies with differences in the camber of surfaces . 
In order to secure flight , the inclination of the surface must be such that the neutral lift line makes an angle with and ABOVE the line of motion . 
If it is coincident with M , there is no lift . 
If it makes an angle with M and BELOW it , then there is a pressure tending to force the surface down . 
This angle is generally defined as the angle the chord makes with the direction of motion , but that is a bad definition , as it leads to misconception . 
The angle of incidence is best described as the angle the neutral lift line makes with the direction of motion relative to the air . 
You will , however , find that in nearly all rigging specifications the angle of incidence is taken to mean the angle the chord makes with a line parallel to the propeller thrust . 
Again , he would certainly be in doubt as to the direction of motion relative to the air , '' whereas he can easily find a line parallel to the propeller thrust . 
Flight may conceivably be secured with a negative angle of chord , but never with a negative inclination of the surface . 
All this is only applicable to cambered surfaces . 
In the case of flat surfaces the neutral lift line coincides with the chord and the definition I have criticised adversely is then applicable . 
Flat lifting surfaces are , however , never used . 
The surface acts upon the air in the following manner As the bottom of the surface meets the air , it compresses it and accelerates it DOWNWARDS . 
As a result of this definite action there is , of course , an equal and opposite reaction UPWARDS . 
The top surface , in moving forward , tends to leave the air behind it , thus creating a semi vacuum or rarefied area over the top of the surface . 
Consequently the pressure of air on the top of the surface is decreased , thus assisting the reaction below to lift the surface UPWARDS . 
The reaction increases approximately as the square of the velocity . 
the velocity and consequent force with which the surface engages the air . 
on the top of the surface and only some two fifths is due to the upward reaction secured by the action of the bottom surface upon the air . 
The vertical component of the reaction , i . 
, Lift , which is opposed to Gravity , i . 
, the weight of the aeroplane . 
The horizontal component , i . 
, to which is opposed the thrust of the propeller . 
The direction of the reaction is , of course , the resultant of the forces Lift and Drift . 
The Lift is the useful part of the reaction , for it lifts the weight of the aeroplane . 
The Drift is the villain of the piece , and must be overcome by the Thrust in order to secure the necessary velocity to produce the requisite Lift for flight . 
may be conveniently divided into three parts , as follows Active Drift , which is the drift produced by the lifting surfaces . 
Passive Drift , which is the drift produced by all the rest of the aeroplane the struts , wires , fuselage , under carriage , etc . 
, all of which is known as detrimental surface . 
'' Skin Friction , which is the drift produced by the friction of the air with roughnesses of surface . 
The latter is practically negligible having regard to the smooth surface of the modern aeroplane , and its comparatively slow velocity compared with , for instance , the velocity of a propeller blade . 
Those factors are as follows . 
The greater the velocity the greater the proportion of drift to lift , and consequently the less the efficiency . 
drift , being component parts of the reaction , increase as the square of the velocity , and the efficiency remains the same at all speeds . 
But , considering the whole aeroplane , we must remember the passive drift . 
Every effort is then made to decrease it by stream lining , '' i . 
, by giving all detrimental'' parts of the aeroplane a form by which they will pass through the air with the least possible drift . 
Even the wires bracing the aeroplane together are , in many cases , stream lined , and with a markedly good effect upon the lift drift ratio . 
In the case of a certain well known type of aeroplane the replacing of the ordinary wires by stream lined wires added over five miles an hour to the flight speed . 
, as it is of the rarefied area behind . 
The greater the rarefied area DD . 
then , the less the density , and , consequently , the less the pressure of air upon the rear of the object . 
The less such pressure , then , the better is head resistance D able to get its work in , and the more thrust will be required to overcome it . 
The fineness'' of the stream line shape , i . 
, the proportion of length to width , is determined by the velocity the greater the velocity , the greater the fineness . 
The best degree of fineness for any given velocity is found by means of wind tunnel research . 
The most efficient angle of incidence varies with the thrust at the disposal of the designer , the weight to be carried , and the climb velocity ratio desired . 
The best angles of incidence for these varying factors are found by means of wind tunnel research and practical trial and error . 
Generally speaking , the greater the velocity the smaller should be the angle of incidence , in order to preserve a clean , stream line shape of rarefied area and freedom from eddies . 
Should the angle be too great for the velocity , then the rarefied area becomes of irregular shape with attendant turbulent eddies . 
Such eddies possess no lift value , and since it has taken power to produce them , they represent drift and adversely affect the lift drift ratio . 
Any deviation will adversely affect the lift drift ratio , i . 
The lifting surfaces are cambered , i . 
, curved , in order to decrease the horizontal component of the reaction , i . 
acceleration and compression of the air from the leading edge to the trailing edge . 
Any unevenness in the acceleration and compression of the air produces drift . 
The top camber If this was flat it would produce a rarefied area of irregular shape . 
I have already explained the bad effect this has upon the lift drift ratio . 
The top surface is then curved to produce a rarefied area the shape of which shall be as stream line and free from attendant eddies as possible . 
The camber varies with the angle of incidence , the velocity , and the thickness of the surface . 
Generally speaking , the greater the velocity , the less the camber and angle of incidence . 
, and would be , top and bottom , of pure streamline form i . 
This is , of course , carrying theory to absurdity as the surface would then cease to exist . 
The best cambers for varying velocities , angles of incidence , and thicknesses of surface , are found by means of wind tunnel research . 
The practical application of all this is in taking the greatest care to prevent the surface from becoming distorted and thus spoiling the camber and consequently the lift drift ratio . 
This is the proportion of span to chord . 
Thus , if the span is , for instance , feet and the chord feet , the surface would be said to have an aspect ratio of to . 
For A GIVEN VELOCITY and A GIVEN AREA of surface , the greater the aspect ratio , the greater the reaction . 
The reason of this is rather obscure . 
It is sometimes advanced that it is owing to the spill'' of air from under the wing tips . 
With a high aspect ratio the chord is less than would otherwise be the case . 
Less chord results in smaller wing tips and consequently less spill . 
'' This , however , appears to be a rather inadequate reason for the high aspect ratio producing the high lift drift ratio . 
Other reasons are also advanced , but they are of such a contentious nature I do not think it well to go into them here . 
They are of interest to designers , but this is written for the practical pilot and rigger . 
This is the advancement of the top surface relative to the bottom surface , and is not , of course , applicable to a single surface , i . 
Theoretically the top plane should be staggered forward for a distance equal to about per cent . 
The vertical component of the reaction , i . 
of the surface , but the drift remains the same . 
Then it follows that if H. E. grows less , the ratio of lift to drift must do the same . 
A , B , and C are front views of three surfaces . 
A has its full H. E. , and therefore , from the point of view from which we are at the moment considering efficiency , it has its best lift drift ratio . 
B and C both possess the same surface as A , but one is inclined upwards from its centre and the other is straight but tilted . 
, the lift drift ratio falls . 
THE MARGIN OF POWER is the power available above that necessary to maintain horizontal flight . 
THE MARGIN OF LIFT is the height an aeroplane can gain in a given time and starting from a given altitude . 
As an example , thus , feet the first minute , and starting from an altitude of feet above sea level . 
The margin of lift decreases with altitude , owing to the decrease in the density of the air , which adversely affects the engine . 
Moreover , greater velocity for a given power would be secured at a greater altitude , owing to the decreased density of air to be overcome . 
I am afraid , however , that will always remain impossible but it is probable that some very interesting steps may be taken in that direction . 
, and weight , horizontal flight can be maintained . 
, and weight , horizontal flight can be maintained . 
THE OPTIMUM ANGLE OF INCIDENCE is the angle at which the lift drift ratio is highest . 
In modern aeroplanes it is that angle of incidence possessed by the surface when the axis of the propeller is horizontal . 
THE BEST CLIMBING ANGLE is approximately half way between the maximum and the optimum angles . 
All present day aeroplanes are a compromise between Climb and horizontal Velocity . 
We will compare the essentials for two aeroplanes , one designed for maximum climb , and the other for maximum velocity . 
Low velocity , in order to secure the best lift drift ratio . 
Having a low velocity , a large surface will be necessary in order to engage the necessary mass of air to secure the requisite lift . 
has , so far , been found to be an arrangement of an inclined surface driven by a HORIZONTAL thrust the surface lifting the weight , and the thrust overcoming the drift . 
This is , in practice , a far more efficient arrangement than the helicopter , i . 
, the air screw revolving about a vertical axis and producing a thrust opposed to gravity . 
As already explained , the lift drift ratio falls with velocity on account of the increase in passive drift . 
The velocity being low , then it follows that for that reason also the angle of incidence should be comparatively large . 
Since such an aeroplane would be of low velocity , and therefore possess a large angle of incidence , a large camber would be necessary . 
Let us now consider the essentials for an aeroplane of maximum velocity for its power , and possessing merely enough lift to get off the ground , but no margin of lift . 
A small angle relative to the propeller thrust , since the latter coincides with the direction of motion . 
A comparatively small angle of incidence by reason of the high velocity . 
A comparatively small camber follows as a result of the small angle of incidence . 
Essentials for Maximum Essentials for Maximum Climb . 
Large angle relative to Small angle relative to propeller thrust . 
Large angle relative to Small angle relative to direction direction of motion . 
It is mechanically impossible to construct an aeroplane of reasonable weight of which it would be possible to very the above opposing essentials . 
Therefore , all aeroplanes are designed as a compromise between Climb and Velocity . 
As a rule aeroplanes are designed to have at low altitude a slight margin of lift when the propeller thrust is horizontal . 
OF AN AEROPLANE DESIGNED AS A COMPROMISE BETWEEN VELOCITY AND CLIMB , AND POSSESSING A SLIGHT MARGIN OF LIFT AT A LOW ALTITUDE AND WHEN THE THRUST IS HORIZONTAL MINIMUM ANGLE . 
This gives the greatest velocity during horizontal flight at a low altitude . 
Greater velocity would be secured if the surface , angle , and camber were smaller and designed to just maintain horizontal flight with a horizontal thrust . 
, either with reference to velocity OR climb . 
The camber of the surface is designed for this angle of incidence and velocity . 
The lift drift ratio is best at this angle . 
BEST CLIMBING ANGLE The velocity is now still less by reason of the increased angle producing increase of drift . 
Any greater angle will result in a still lower lift drift ratio . 
The lift will then become less than the weight and the aeroplane will consequently fall . 
Such a fall is known as stalling'' or pancaking . 
The golden rule for beginners Never exceed the Best Climbing Angle . 
Always maintain the flying speed of the aeroplane . 
That ensures maximum velocity when most required . 
Perhaps some day a brilliant inventor will design an aeroplane of reasonable weight and drift of which it will be possible for the pilot to vary at will the above mentioned opposing essentials . 
Then we shall get maximum velocity , or maximum margin of lift , for power as required . 
Until then the design of the aeroplane must remain a compromise between Velocity and Climb . 
CHAPTER II STABILITY AND CONTROL STABILITY is a condition whereby an object disturbed has a natural tendency to return to its first and normal position . 
Example a weight suspended by a cord . 
INSTABILITY is a condition whereby an object disturbed has a natural tendency to move as far as possible away from its first position , with no tendency to return . 
Example a stick balanced vertically upon your finger . 
NEUTRAL INSTABILITY is a condition whereby an object disturbed has no tendency to move farther than displaced by the force of the disturbance , and no tendency to return to its first position . 
In order that an aeroplane may be reasonably controllable , it is necessary for it to possess some degree of stability longitudinally , laterally , and directionally . 
LONGITUDINAL STABILITY in an aeroplane is its stability about an axis transverse to the direction of normal horizontal flight , and without which it would pitch and toss . 
LATERAL STABILITY is its stability about its longitudinal axis , and without which it would roll sideways . 
DIRECTIONAL STABILITY is its stability about its vertical axis , and without which it would have no tendency to keep its course . 
For such directional stability to exist there must be , in effect , more keel surface'' behind the vertical axis than there is in front of it . 
By keel surface I mean every thing to be seen when looking at an aeroplane from the side of it the sides of the body , undercarriage , struts , wires , etc . 
The same thing applies to a weathercock . 
You know what would happen if there was insufficient keel surface behind the vertical axis upon which it is pivoted . 
It would turn off its proper course , which is opposite to the direction of the wind . 
It is very much the same in the case of an aeroplane . 
flying along the course B. A gust striking it as indicated acts upon the greater proportion of keel surface behind the turning axis and throws it into the new course . 
But the centre line of the aeroplane is pointing in the direction of the new course . 
Increased velocity means increased lift and so , the right wing lifting , the aeroplane would turn over sideways very quickly . 
Flat surfaces are longitudinally stable owing to the fact that with decreasing angles of incidence the centre line of pressure moves forward . 
In B , C , and D the surfaces are shown with angles of incidence decreasing to nothing , and you will note that the C. P. moves forward with the decreasing angle . 
Now , should some gust or eddy tend to make the surface decrease the angle , i . 
, dive , then the C. P. moves forward and pushes the front of the surface up . 
Should the surface tend to assume too large an angle , then the reverse happens the C. P. moves back and pushes the rear of the surface up . 
Flat surfaces are , then , theoretically stable longitudinally . 
They are not , however , used , on account of their poor lift drift ratio . 
As already explained , cambered surfaces are used , and these are longitudinally unstable at those angles of incidence producing a reasonable lift drift ratio , i . 
, at angles below about degrees . 
A is a cambered surface , attitude approximately vertical , moving through the air in the direction M. Obviously the C. P. coincides with the transverse centre line of the surface . 
, but angles above degrees do not interest us , since they produce a very low ratio of lift to drift . 
Now , should some gust or eddy tend to make the surface decrease its angle of incidence , i . 
, dive , then the C. P. moves backwards , and , pushing up the rear of the surface , causes it to dive the more . 
'' It is therefore necessary to find a means of stabilizing the naturally unstable cambered surface . 
In other words , the rear stabilizing surface must have a lesser angle of incidence than the main surface certainly not more than one third of that of the main surface . 
This is known as the longitudinal dihedral . 
is therefore less than the angle of incidence of the main surface . 
In such case the proposition remains the same , but it is , perhaps , a little easier to illustrate it as above . 
Now , we will suppose that a gust or eddy throws the machine into the lower position . 
It no longer travels in the direction of T , since the momentum in the old direction pulls it off that course . 
, a decrease in the angle of incidence and therefore a decrease in lift . 
We will suppose that this decrease is degrees . 
Such decrease applies to both main surface and stabilizer , since both are fixed rigidly to the aeroplane . 
The main surface , which had degrees angle , has now only degrees , i . 
, a loss of ONE SIXTH . 
The stabilizer , which had degrees angle , has now only degrees , i . 
, a loss of ONE HALF . 
The latter has therefore lost a greater PROPORTION of its angle of incidence , and consequently its lift , than has the main surface . 
It must then fall relative to the main surface . 
The tail falling , the aeroplane then assumes its first position , though at a slightly less altitude . 
Should a gust throw the nose of the aeroplane up , then the reverse happens . 
The aeroplane then assumes its first position , though at a slightly greater altitude . 
Do not fall into the widespread error that the angle of incidence varies as the angle of the aeroplane to the horizontal . 
It varies with such angle , but not as anything approaching it . 
Remember that the stabilizing effect of the longitudinal dihedral lasts only as long as there is momentum in the direction of the first course . 
These stabilizing movements are taking place all the time , even though imperceptible to the pilot . 
Aeroplanes have , in the past , been built with a stabilizing surface in front of the main surface instead of at the rear of it . 
must be set at a less angle than the forward stabilizing surface , in order to secure a longitudinal dihedral . 
The defect of such design lies in the fact that the main surface must have a certain angle to lift the weight say degrees . 
Then , in order to secure a sufficiency of longitudinal stability , it is necessary to set the forward stabilizer at about degrees . 
, except at very low velocities compared with the speed of modern aeroplanes . 
At the time such aeroplanes were built velocities were comparatively low , and this defect was for that reason , not sufficiently appreciated . 
In the end it killed the canard'' or tail first'' design . 
Aeroplanes of the Dunne and similar types possess no stabilizing surface distinct from the main surface , but they have a longitudinal dihedral which renders them stable . 
The main surface towards the wing tips is given a decreasing angle of incidence and corresponding camber . 
The wing tips then act as longitudinal stabilizers . 
The plan design is not , from a mechanical point of view , so sound as that of the ordinary aeroplane surface , which is , in plan , a parallelogram . 
It is , then , necessary to make the strength of construction greater than would otherwise be the case . 
The lower the aspect ratio , then , the less the lift . 
This design , then , produces less lift for weight of surface than would the same surface if arranged as a parallelogram . 
In order to secure the longitudinal dihedral , the angle of incidence has to be very much decreased towards the wing tips . 
Then , in order that the lift drift ratio may be preserved , there must be a corresponding decrease in the camber . 
That calls for surface ribs of varying cambers , and results in an expensive and lengthy job for the builder . 
In order to secure directional stability , the surface is , in the centre , arranged to dip down in the form of a V , pointing towards the direction of motion . 
Should the aeroplane turn off its course , then its momentum in the direction of its first course causes it to move in a direction the resultant of the thrust and the momentum . 
This arrangement of the surface results in a bad drift . 
Vertical surfaces at the wing tips may also be set at an angle producing the same stabilizing effect , but they also increase the drift . 
The gyroscopic action of a rotary engine will affect the longitudinal stability when an aeroplane is turned to right or left . 
In modern aeroplanes this tendency is not sufficiently important to bother about . 
'' LATERAL STABILITY is far more difficult for the designer to secure than is longitudinal or directional stability . 
Some degree of lateral stability may be secured by means of the lateral dihedral , '' i . 
, the upward inclination of the surface towards its wing tips thus Imagine the top V , illustrated opposite , to be the front view of a surface flying towards you . 
of the left wing is the same as that of the right wing . 
Therefore , the lift of one wing is equal to the lift of the other , and the weight , being situated always in the centre , is balanced . 
The left wing then , having the greatest lift , rises and the surface assumes its first and normal position . 
Unfortunately however , the righting effect is not proportional to the difference between the right and left H. E. 's . 
In the case of A , the resultant direction of the reaction of both wings is opposed to the direction of gravity or weight . 
The two forces R R and gravity are then evenly balanced , and the surface is in a state of equilibrium . 
In the case of B , you will note that the R R is not directly opposed to gravity . 
That causes the aeroplane to turn and , the highest wing being on the outside of the turn , it has a greater velocity than the lower wing . 
That produces greater lift , and tends to tilt the aeroplane over still more . 
Such tilting tendency is , however , opposed by the difference in the H. E. 's of the two wings . 
It is now , I hope , clear to the reader that the lateral dihedral is not quite so effective as would appear at first sight . 
Also , it is sometimes advanced that the lateral dihedral increases the spill'' of air from the wing tips and that this adversely affects the lift drift ratio . 
The disposition of the keel surface affects the lateral stability . 
It should be , in effect , equally divided by the longitudinal turning axis of the aeroplane . 
If there is an excess of keel surface above or below such axis , then a side gust striking it will tend to turn the aeroplane over sideways . 
The position of the centre of gravity affects lateral stability . 
If too low , it produces a pendulum effect and causes the aeroplane to roll sideways . 
If too high , it acts as a stick balanced vertically would act . 
If disturbed , it tends to travel to a position as far as possible from its original position . 
It would then tend , when moved , to turn the aeroplane over sideways and into an upside down position . 
From the point of view of lateral stability , the best position for the centre of gravity is one a little below the centre of drift . 
Propeller torque affects lateral stability . 
An aeroplane tends to turn over sideways in the opposite direction to which the propeller revolves . 
of the side tending to fall and it is always advisable , if practical considerations allow it , to also decrease the angle upon the other side . 
In that way it is not necessary to depart so far from the normal angle of incidence at which the lift drift ratio is highest . 
Wash in is the term applied to the increased angle . 
Wash out is the term applied to the decreased angle . 
more effective , as , in order to operate them , it is not then necessary to give them such a large angle of incidence as would otherwise be required . 
The less the angle of incidence of the ailerons , the better their lift drift ratio , i . 
Its efficiency is therefore greater . 
The advantages of the wash in must , of course be paid for in some loss of lift , as the lift decreases with the decreased angle . 
In order to secure all the above described advantages , a combination is sometimes effected , thus BANKING . 
An aeroplane turned off its course to right or left does not at once proceed along its new course . 
Its momentum in the direction of its first course causes it to travel along a line the resultant of such momentum and the thrust . 
In other words , it more or less skids sideways and away from the centre of the turn . 
This bad effect is minimized by banking , '' i . 
, tilting the aeroplane sideways . 
The bottom of the lifting surface is in that way opposed to the air through which it is moving in the direction of the momentum and receives an opposite air pressure . 
The rarefied area over the top of the surface is rendered still more rare , and this , of course , assists the air pressure in opposing the momentum . 
The velocity of the skid , '' or sideways movement , is then only such as is necessary to secure an air pressure equal and opposite to the centrifugal force of the turn . 
The sharper the turn , the greater the effect of the centrifugal force , and therefore the steeper should be the bank . 
The position of the centre of gravity affects banking . 
A high C. G. also tends to swing outward from the centre of the turn . 
It will tend to make the aeroplane bank the wrong way , and such effect must be remedied by means of the ailerons . 
The pleasantest machine from a banking point of view is one in which the C. G. is a little below the centre of drift . 
It tends to bank the aeroplane the right way for the turn , and the pilot can , if necessary , perfect the bank by means of the ailerons . 
The disposition of the keel surface affects banking . 
It should be , in effect , evenly divided by the longitudinal axis . 
An excess of keel surface above the longitudinal axis will , when banking , receive an air pressure causing the aeroplane to bank , perhaps too much . 
An excess of keel surface below the axis has the reverse effect . 
This usually occurs as a result of over banking . 
It is always the result of the aeroplane tilting sideways and thus decreasing the horizontal equivalent , and therefore the lift , of the surface . 
When making a very sharp turn it is necessary to bank very steeply indeed . 
The Pilot , however , prevents such a state of affairs from happening by nosing down , '' i . 
The aeroplane is now almost upside down , but its attitude relative to the direction of motion is correct and the controlling surfaces are all of them working efficiently . 
The aeroplane is then always engaging the air as designed to do so , and both lifting and controlling surfaces are acting efficiently . 
The only exception to this rule is a vertical dive , and I think that is obviously not an attitude for any but very experienced pilots to hanker after . 
This is the worst of all predicaments the pilot can find himself in . 
The sensible pilot will not go beyond reasonable limits of steepness and radius when executing spiral descents . 
GLIDING DESCENT WITHOUT PROPELLER THRUST . 
All aeroplanes are , or should be , designed to assume their gliding angle when the power and thrust is cut off . 
This relieves the pilot of work , worry , and danger should he find himself in a fog or cloud . 
The Pilot , although he may not realize it , maintains the correct attitude of the aeroplane by observing its position relative to the horizon . 
The pilot is then under the necessity of watching three instruments and manipulating his three controls to keep the instruments indicating longitudinal , lateral , and directional stability . 
That is a feat beyond the capacity of the ordinary man . 
That is no small job in itself , but it is , at any rate , fairly practicable . 
Aeroplanes are , then , designed , or should be , so that the centre of gravity is slightly forward of centre of lift . 
A jerky movement may change the direction of motion so suddenly as to produce dangerous air stresses upon the surfaces , in which case there is a possibility of collapse . 
This is not set at quite the correct angle . 
STRESS is the load or burden a body is called upon to bear . 
It is usually expressed by the result found by dividing the load by the number of superficial square inches contained in the cross sectional area of the body . 
STRAIN is the deformation produced by stress . 
For instance , if a control wire be called upon to endure a maximum stress of cwts . 
, and the known stress at which it will collapse is cwts . 
, the factor of safety is then . 
centerweights pound units as in cent century . 
or C. as the previous popular abbreviation as in Roman Numerals The word listed is hundredweight . 
Michael S. Hart , COMPRESSION . 
The simple stress of compression tends to produce a crushing strain . 
Example the interplane and fuselage struts . 
The simple stress of tension tends to produce the strain of elongation . 
The compound stress of bending is a combination of compression and tension . 
The above sketch illustrates a straight piece of wood of which the top , centre , and bottom lines are of equal length . 
That can be due only to the strain of elongation produced by the stress of tension . 
The wood between the centre line and the top line is then in tension and the farther from the centre , the greater the strain , and consequently the greater the tension . 
The bottom line , being nearest to the centre of the circle , is now shorter than the centre line . 
That can be due only to the strain of crushing produced by the stress of compression . 
The wood between the centre and bottom lines is then in compression and the nearer the centre of the circle , the greater the strain , and consequently the greater the compression . 
It then follows that there is neither tension nor compression , i . 
, no stress , at the centre line , and that the wood immediately surrounding it is under considerably less stress than the wood farther away . 
This being so , the wood in the centre may be hollowed out without unduly weakening struts and spars . 
In this way to per cent . 
is saved in the weight of wood in an aeroplane . 
The strength of wood is in its fibres , which should , as far as possible , run without break from one end of a strut or spar to the other end . 
A point to remember is that the outside fibres , being farthest removed from the centre line , are doing by far the greatest work . 
SHEAR STRESS IS such that , when material collapses under it , one part slides over the other . 
Example all the locking pins . 
Some of the bolts are also in shear or sideways'' stress , owing to lugs under their heads and from which wires are taken . 
Such a wire , exerting a sideways pull upon a bolt , tries to break it in such a way as to make one piece of the bolt slide over the other piece . 
This is a twisting stress compounded of compression , tension , and shear stresses . 
NATURE OF WOOD UNDER STRESS . 
Wood , for its weight , takes the stress of compression far better than any other stress . 
For instance a walking stick of less than lb . 
Weight being of such vital importance , and designers all trying to outdo each other in saving weight , it follows that the factor of safety is rather low in an aeroplane . 
The parts in direct compression will , however , take the stresses safely provided the following conditions are carefully observed . 
All the spars and struts must be perfectly straight . 
The above sketch illustrates a section through an interplane strut . 
If the strut is to be kept straight , i . 
, prevented from bending , then the stress of compression must be equally disposed about the centre of strength . 
If it is not straight , then there will be more compression on one side of the centre of strength than on the other side . 
The only exception to the above condition is what is known as the Arch . 
For instance , in the case of the Maurice Farman , the spars of the centre section plane , which have to take the weight of the nacelle , are arched upwards . 
If this was not done , it is possible that rough landings might result in the weight causing the spars to become slightly distorted downwards . 
Struts and spars must be symmetrical . 
Struts , spars , etc . 
Remember that , from what I have already explained about bending stresses , the outside fibres of the wood are doing by far the most work . 
The wood must have a good , clear grain with no cross grain , knots , or shakes . 
Such blemishes produce weak places and , if a tendency to bend appears , then it may collapse at such a point . 
The struts , spars , etc . 
, must be properly bedded into their sockets or fittings . 
To begin with , they must be of good pushing or gentle tapping fit . 
They must never be driven in with a heavy hammer . 
The atmosphere is sometimes much damper than at other times , and this causes wood to expand and contract appreciably . 
This would not matter but for the fact that it does not expand and contract uniformly , but becomes unsymmetrical , i . 
I have already explained the danger of that in condition . 
This should be minimized by WELL VARNISHING THE WOOD to keep the moisture out of it . 
These struts have to keep the lifting surfaces or planes'' apart , but this is only part of their work . 
They must keep the planes apart , so that the latter are in their correct attitude . 
That is only so when the spars of the bottom plane are parallel with those of the top plane . 
Also , the chord of the top plane must be parallel with the chord of the bottom plane . 
If that is not so , then one plane will not have the same angle of incidence as the other one . 
At first sight one might think that all that is necessary is to cut all the struts to be the same length , but that is not the case . 
If that is not done , then the top and bottom chords will not be parallel , and the top and bottom planes will have different angles of incidence . 
Also , the sockets or fittings , or even the spars upon which they are placed , sometimes vary in thickness owing to faulty manufacture . 
This must be offset by altering the length of the struts . 
This applies to both front and rear interplane struts . 
It should be a strict rule that no spar be used which has an unnecessary hole in it . 
Before boring a hole , its position should be confirmed by whoever is in charge of the workshop . 
A bolt hole should be of a size to enable the bolt to be pushed in , or , at any rate , not more than gently tapped in . 
Bolts should not be hammered in , as that may split the spar . 
Under the bolt head , and also under the nut , a washer must be placed a very large washer compared with the size which would be used in all metal construction . 
Now as regards locking the bolts . 
If split pins are used , be sure to see that they are used in such a way that the nut cannot possibly unscrew at all . 
The split pin should be passed through the bolt as near as possible to the nut . 
It should not be passed through both nut and bolt . 
If it is locked by burring over the edge of the bolt , do not use a heavy hammer and try to spread the whole head of the bolt . 
That might damage the woodwork inside the fabric covered surface . 
Use a small , light hammer , and gently tap round the edge of the bolt until it is burred over . 
A turnbuckle is composed of a central barrel into each end of which is screwed an eye bolt . 
Wires are taken from the eyes of the eye bolt , and so , by turning the barrel , they can be adjusted to their proper tension . 
Eye bolts must be a good fit in the barrel that is to say , not slack and not very tight . 
Now about turning the barrel to secure the right adjustment . 
The barrel looks solid , but , as a matter of fact , it is hollow and much more frail than it appears . 
For that reason it should not be turned by seizing it with pliers , as that may distort it and spoil the bore within it . 
The best method is to pass a piece of wire through the hole in its centre , and to use that as a lever . 
When the correct adjustment has been secured , the turnbuckle must be locked to prevent it from unscrewing . 
The proper way is to use the locking wire so that its direction is such as to oppose the tendency of the barrel to unscrew , thus WIRES . 
The following points should be carefully observed where wire is concerned . 
It must not be too hard or too soft . 
An easy practical way of learning to know the approximate quality of wire is as follows Take three pieces , all of the same gauge , and each about a foot in length . 
One piece should be too soft , another too hard , and the third piece of the right quality . 
Fix them in a vice , about an inch apart and in a vertical position , and with the light from a window shining upon them . 
Burnish them if necessary , and you will see a band of light reflected from each wire . 
Now bend the wires over as far as possible and away from the light . 
Where the soft wire is concerned , it will squash out at the bend , and this will be indicated by the band of light , which will broaden at that point . 
In the case of the wire of the right quality , the band of light may broaden a very little at the turn , but there will be no roughnesses of surface . 
It must not be damaged . 
That is to say , it must be unkinked , rustless , and unscored . 
Now as regards keeping wire in good condition . 
Where outside wires are concerned , they should be kept WELL GREASED OR OILED , especially where bent over at the ends . 
Internal bracing wires cannot be reached for the purpose of regreasing them , as they are inside fabric covered surfaces . 
They should be prevented from rusting by being painted with an anti rust mixture . 
Great care should be taken to see that the wire is perfectly clean and dry before being painted . 
A greasy finger mark is sufficient to stop the paint from sticking to the wire . 
In such a case there will be a little space between the paint and the wire . 
Air may enter there and cause the wire to rust . 
The tension to which the wires are adjusted is of the greatest importance . 
All the wires should be of the same tension when the aeroplane is supported in such a way as to throw no stress upon them . 
If some wires are in greater tension than others , the aeroplane will quickly become distorted and lose its efficiency . 
In this way the anti lift wires are relieved of the weight , and there is no stress upon any of the wires . 
As a general rule the wires of an aeroplane are tensioned too much . 
The tension should be sufficient to keep the framework rigid . 
Only experience will teach the rigger what tension to employ . 
Wires with no Opposition Wires . 
In some few cases wires will be found which have no opposition wires pulling in the opposite direction . 
For instance , an auxiliary lift wire may run from the bottom of a strut to a spar in the top plane at a point between struts . 
In such a case great care should be taken not to tighten the wire beyond barely taking up the slack . 
Such a wire must be a little slack , or , as illustrated above , it will distort the framework . 
of the surface , and result in changing both the lift and the drift at that part of the surface . 
Such a condition will cause the aeroplane to lose its directional stability and also to fly one wing down . 
I cannot impress this matter of tension upon the reader too strongly . 
It is of the utmost importance . 
When this , and also accuracy in securing the various adjustments , has been learned , one is on the way to becoming a good rigger . 
Wire is often bent over at its end in the form of a loop , in order to connect with a turnbuckle or fitting . 
The size of the loop should be as small as possible within reason . 
By that I mean it should not be so small as to create the possibility of the wire breaking . 
The shape of the loop should be symmetrical . 
It should have well defined shoulders in order to prevent the ferrule from slipping up . 
At the same time , a shoulder should not have an angular place . 
When the loop is finished it should be undamaged , and it should not be , as is often the case , badly scored . 
No splice should be served with twine until it has been inspected by whoever is in charge of the workshop . 
The serving may cover bad work . 
Should a strand become broken , then the cable should be replaced at once by another one . 
Control cables have a way of wearing out and fraying wherever they pass round pulleys . 
Every time an aeroplane comes down from flight the rigger should carefully examine the cables , especially where they pass round pulleys . 
If he finds a strand broken , he should replace the cable . 
The ailerons' balance cable on the top of the top plane is often forgotten , since it is necessary to fetch a high pair of steps in order to examine it . 
Don't slack this , or some gusty day the pilot may unexpectedly find himself minus the aileron control . 
The greatest care should be exercised in rigging the aileron , rudder , and elevator properly , for the pilot entirely depends upon them in managing the aeroplane . 
If the surface to which they are hinged is not a lifting surface , then they should be rigged to be in a fair true line with it as illustrated above . 
This is because , in such a case , it is set at an angle of incidence . 
This angle will , during flight , cause it to lift a little above the position in which it has been rigged . 
It is therefore necessary to rig it a little below the position it would occupy if it was rigged in a fair true line with the surface in front . 
Remember that this only applies when it is hinged to a lifting surface . 
of the surface in front , then the more the controlling surface will have to be rigged down . 
When making these adjustments the pilot's control levers should be in their neutral positions . 
It is not sufficient to lash them . 
They should be rigidly blocked into position with wood packing . 
The surfaces must not be distorted in any way . 
If they are held true by bracing wires , then such wires must be carefully adjusted . 
If they are distorted and there are no bracing wires with which to true them , then some of the internal framework will probably have to be replaced . 
The controlling surfaces should never be adjusted with a view to altering the stability of the aeroplane . 
Nothing can be accomplished in that way . 
The only result will be to spoil the control of the aeroplane . 
First of all make sure that there is no distortion of spars or ribs , and that they are perfectly sound . 
Then adjust the internal bracing wires so that the ribs are parallel to the direction of flight . 
The ribs usually cause the fabric to make a ridge where they occur , and , if such ridge is not parallel to the direction of flight , it will produce excessive drift . 
As a rule the ribs are at right angles to both main and rear spars . 
The tension of the internal bracing wires should be just sufficient to give rigidity to the framework . 
They should not be tensioned above that unless the wires are , at their ends , bent to form loops . 
In that case a little extra tension may be given to offset the probable elongation of the loops . 
The turnbuckles must now be generously greased , and served round with adhesive tape . 
The wires must be rendered perfectly dry and clean , and then painted with an anti rust mixture . 
The woodwork must be well varnished . 
All is now ready for the sail maker to cover the surface with fabric . 
The adjustment of the control cables is quite an art , and upon it will depend to a large degree the quick and easy control of the aeroplane by the pilot . 
Then , sitting in the pilot's seat , move the control levers SMARTLY . 
Tension the control cables so that when the levers are smartly moved there is no perceptible snatch or lag . 
Be careful not to tension the cables more than necessary to take out the snatch . 
cause the cables to fray round the pulleys quicker than would otherwise be the case . 
If the adjustment is correct , it should be possible to see the controlling surfaces move . 
If they do not move , then the control cables are too slack . 
Before rigging an aeroplane or making any adjustments it is necessary to place it in what is known as its flying position . 
'' I may add that it would be better termed its rigging position . 
'' In the case of an aeroplane fitted with a stationary engine this is secured by packing up the machine so that the engine foundations are perfectly horizontal both longitudinally and laterally . 
, and great care should be taken to see that the bubble is exactly in the centre of the level . 
The slightest error will assume magnitude towards the extremities of the aeroplane . 
Great care should be taken to block up the aeroplane rigidly . 
The straight edge should be carefully tested before being used , as , being generally made of wood , it will not remain true long . 
Place it lightly in a vice , and in such a position that a spirit level on top shows the bubble exactly in the centre . 
Now slowly move the level along the straight edge , and the bubble should remain exactly in the centre . 
If it does not do so , then the straight edge is not true and must be corrected . 
THIS SHOULD NEVER BE OMITTED . 
One method of finding the angle of incidence is as follows First place the aeroplane in its flying position . 
The corner of the straight edge must be placed underneath and against the CENTRE of the rear spar , and held in a horizontal position parallel to the ribs . 
This is secured by using a spirit level . 
Care should be taken to measure from the centre of the spar and to see that the bubble is exactly in the centre of the level . 
Remember that all this will be useless if the aeroplane has not been placed accurately in its flying position . 
This method of finding the angle of incidence must be used under every part of the lower surface where struts occur . 
Never attempt to adjust the angle by warping the main spar . 
The set measurement , which is of course stated in the aeroplane's specifications , should be accurate to inch . 
They must run between points on the spars just inside the outer struts . 
is then from the strings down to four points on the main and rear spars of the centre section surface . 
These points should be just inside the four centre section struts that is to say , as far as possible away from the centre of the centre section . 
Do not attempt to take the set measurement near the centre of the centre section . 
The strings should be as tight as possible , and , if it can be arranged , the best way to accomplish that is as shown in the above illustration , i . 
, by weighting the strings down to the spars by means of weights and tying each end of the strings to a strut . 
This will give a tight and motionless string . 
However carefully the above adjustment is made , there is sure to be some slight error . 
This is of no great importance , provided it is divided equally between the left and right hand wings . 
It is not practicable to do so , however , as the centre line probably runs through the petrol tanks , etc . 
Another method of securing the dihedral angle , and also the angle of incidence , is by means of the dihedral board . 
It is a light handy thing to use , but leads to many errors , and should not be used unless necessary . 
The reasons are as follows The dihedral board is probably not true . 
If it must be used , then it should be very carefully tested for truth before hand . 
The method of using it is as follows The board is cut to the same angle as that specified for the upward inclination of the surface towards its wing tips . 
, as they may vary in depth . 
This operation must be performed in respect of each bay both front and rear . 
The bays must then be diagonally measured as already explained . 
This operation must be performed in respect of both main and rear spars , and all the bays must be measured diagonally afterwards . 
Whichever method is used , be sure that after the job is done the spars are perfectly straight . 
The stagger is the distance the top surface is in advance of the bottom surface when the aeroplane is in flying position . 
The set measurement is obtained as follows Plumb lines must be dropped over the leading edge of the top surface wherever struts occur , and also near the fuselage . 
The set measurement is taken from the front of the lower leading edge to the plumb lines . 
or along a projection of the chord . 
The line along which the measurement should be taken is laid down in the aeroplane's specifications . 
If a mistake is made and the measurement taken along the wrong line , it may result in a difference of perhaps will , in flight , be nose heavy or tail heavy . 
The following over all check measurements should now be taken . 
The straight lines AC and BC should be equal to within inch . 
The point C is the centre of the propeller , or , in the case of a pusher'' aeroplane , the centre of the nacelle . 
The points A and B are marked on the main spar , and must in each case be the same distance from the butt of the spar . 
The rigger should not attempt to make A and B merely the sockets of the outer struts , as they may not have been placed quite accurately by the manufacturer . 
The lines AC and BC must be taken from both top and bottom spars two measurements on each side of the aeroplane . 
The two measurements FD and FE should be equal to within inch . 
F is the centre of the fuselage or rudder post . 
D and E are points marked on both top and bottom rear spars , and each must be the same fixed distance from the butt of the spar . 
Two measurements on each side of the aeroplane . 
If these over all measurements are not correct , then it is probably due to some of the drift or anti drift wires being too tight or too slack . 
The method of truing the fuselage is laid down in the aeroplane's specifications . 
In this way it will assume a condition as near as possible to flying conditions , and when it is in this position the set measurements should be confirmed . 
The exact angle of incidence of the tail plane is laid down in the aeroplane's specifications . 
It is necessary to make sure that the spars are horizontal when the aeroplane is in flying position and the tail unsupported as explained above under the heading of Fuselage . 
If the spars are tapered , then make sure that their centre lines are horizontal . 
The undercarriage must be very carefully aligned as laid down in the specifications . 
The aeroplane must be placed in its flying position and sufficiently high to ensure the wheels being off the ground when rigged . 
When in this position the axle must be hori nontal and the bracing wires adjusted to secure the various set measurements stated in the specifications . 
Make sure that the struts bed well down into their sockets . 
Make sure that the shock absorbers are of equal tension . 
In the case of rubber shock absorbers , both the number of turns and the lengths must be equal . 
HOW TO DIAGNOSE FAULTS IN FLIGHT , STABILITY , AND CONTROL . 
on one side of the aeroplane than there is on the other side . 
The aeroplane will tend to turn towards the side having the most drift . 
This may be caused as follows . 
The angle of incidence of the main surface or the tail surface may be wrong . 
The greater the angle of incidence , the greater the drift . 
The less the angle , the less the drift . 
If any part of the surface is distorted , it will cause the aeroplane to turn off its course . 
The surface is cambered , i . 
, curved , to pass through the air with the least possible drift . 
The only possible reason for such a condition is a difference in the lifts of right and left wings . 
That may be caused as follows . 
The angle of incidence may be wrong . 
LONGITUDINAL INSTABILITY may be due to the following reasons . 
The stagger may be wrong . 
The top surface may have drifted back a little owing to some of the wires , probably the incidence wires , having elongated their loops or having pulled the fittings into the wood . 
The aeroplane would then be said to be nose heavy . 
'' A inch area in the stagger will make a very considerable difference to the longitudinal stability . 
If the angle of incidence of the main surface is not right , it will have a bad effect , especially in the case of an aeroplane with a lifting tail plane . 
'' If the angle is too small , it will produce a decreased lift , and the aeroplane may have a tendency to fly nose down . 
The fuselage may have become warped upward or downward , thus giving the tail plane an incorrect angle of incidence . 
If it has too much angle , it will lift too much , and the aeroplane will be nose heavy . 
'' If it has too little angle , then it will not lift enough , and the aeroplane will be tail heavy . 
The tail plane may be mounted upon the fuselage at a wrong angle of incidence , in which case it must be corrected . 
If nose heavy , it should be given a smaller angle of incidence . 
There is then , in effect , a longitudinal dihedral as explained and illustrated in Chapter I. CLIMBS BADLY . 
distorted surfaces , or too small an angle of incidence . 
dirt or mud , and consequently excessive skin friction . 
distortion of control surfaces , or control cables being badly tensioned . 
unequal tension of shock absorbers . 
CHAPTER IV THE PROPELLER , OR AIR SCREW'' The sole object of the propeller is to translate the power of the engine into thrust . 
This reaction may be conveniently divided into two component parts or values , namely , Thrust and Drift . 
The Thrust is opposed to the Drift of the aeroplane , and must be equal and opposite to it at flying speed . 
If it falls off in power , then the flying speed must decrease to a velocity , at which the aeroplane drift equals the decreased thrust . 
The Drift of the propeller may be conveniently divided into the following component values Active Drift , produced by the useful thrusting part of the propeller . 
Passive Drift , produced by all the rest of the propeller , i . 
, by its detrimental surface . 
Skin Friction , produced by the friction of the air with roughnesses of surface . 
Eddies attending the movement of the air caused by the action of the propeller . 
A tendency of the propeller to produce a cavity or semi vacuum in which it revolves , the thrust decreasing with increase of speed and cavitation . 
The proportion of thrust to drift is of paramount importance , for it expresses the efficiency of the propeller . 
It is affected by the following factors Speed of Revolution . 
The greater the speed , the greater the proportion of drift to thrust . 
This is due to the increase with speed of the passive drift , which carries with it no increase in thrust . 
For this reason propellers are often geared down to revolve at a lower speed than that of the engine . 
The same reasons as in the case of the aeroplane surface . 
In addition to the above factors there are , when it comes to actually designing a propeller , mechanical difficulties to consider . 
For instance , the blades must be of a certain strength and consequent thickness . 
That , in itself , limits the aspect ratio , for it will necessitate a chord long enough in proportion to the thickness to make a good camber possible . 
The latter difficulty cannot be overcome by mounting the propeller higher , as the centre of its thrust must be approximately coincident with the centre of aeroplane drift . 
The following conditions must be observed . 
This angle secures the pitch , '' which is the distance the propeller advances during one revolution , supposing the air to be solid . 
The air , as a matter of fact , gives back to the thrust of the blades just as the pebbles slip back as one ascends a shingle beach . 
Such give back'' is known as Slip . 
If a propeller has a pitch of , say , feet , but actually advances , say , only feet owing to slip , then it will be said to possess per cent . 
Thus , the pitch must equal the flying speed of the aeroplane plus the slip of the propeller . 
For example , let us find the pitch of a propeller , given the following conditions Flying speed . 
First find the distance in feet the aeroplane will travel forward in one minute . 
Now divide the feet per minute by the propeller revolutions per minute , add per cent . 
for the slip , and the result will be the propeller pitch , per cent . 
, In order to secure a constant pitch from root to tip of blade , the pitch angle decreases towards the tip . 
This is necessary , since the end of the blade travels faster than its root , and yet must advance forward at the same speed as the rest of the propeller . 
For example , two men ascending a hill . 
One prefers to walk fast and the other slowly , but they wish to arrive at the top of the hill simultaneously . 
must be smaller than the angle of path taken by the slow walker . 
from the centre of the propeller . 
At that point find , by means of a protractor , the angle a projection of the chord makes with the face of the beam . 
That angle is the pitch angle of the blade at that point . 
Now find the circumference of the propeller where the pitch angle is being tested . 
For example , if that place is feet radius from the centre , then the circumference will be feet X feet diameter , which , if multiplied by . 
Now mark off the circumference distance , which is represented above by A B , and reduce it in scale for convenience . 
The distance a vertical line makes between B and the chord dine is the pitch at the point where the angle is being tested , and it should coincide with the specified pitch . 
You will note , from the above illustration , that the actual pitch line should meet the junction of the chord line and top line . 
A faulty propeller will produce a diagram something like this At every point tested the pitch angle is wrong , for nowhere does the actual pitch coincide with the specified pitch . 
Angles A , C , and D , are too large , and B is too small . 
The angle should be correct to half a degree if reasonable efficiency is to be maintained . 
the shaft hole through the boss being out of position . 
To test for straightness the propeller must be mounted upon a shaft . 
Now bring the tip of one blade round to graze some fixed object . 
Mark the point it grazes . 
Now bring the other tip round , and it should come within inch of the mark . 
to the hole through the boss being out of position . 
The blades should be of equal length to inch . 
The usual method of testing a propeller for balance is as follows Mount it upon a shaft , which must be on ball bearings . 
Place the propeller in a horizontal position , and it should remain in that position . 
The above method is rather futile , as it does not test for the balance of centrifugal force , which comes into play as soon as the propeller revolves . 
The surface area of the blades should be equal . 
Test with callipers thus The points between which the distances are taken must , of course , be at the same distance from the centre in the case of each blade . 
There is no standard practice as to the degree of error permissible . 
If , however , there is an error of over inch , the propeller is really unfit for use . 
the greatest depth of the curve should , at any point of the blade , be approximately at the same percentage of the chord from the leading edge as at other points . 
It is not likely , however , that the reader will have the opportunity of making this test . 
He should , however , examine all the joints very carefully , trying by hand to see if they are quite sound . 
Suspect a propeller of which the joints appear to hold any thickness of glue . 
Sometimes the joints in the boss open a little , but this is not dangerous unless they extend to the blades , as the bolts will hold the laminations together . 
The surface should be very smooth , especially towards the tips of the blades . 
Some propeller tips have a speed of over , feet a minute , and any roughness will produce a bad drift or resistance and lower the efficiency . 
Great care should be taken to see that the propeller is mounted quite straight on its shaft . 
Test in the same way as for straightness . 
If it is not straight , it is possibly due to some of the propeller bolts being too slack or to others having been pulled up too tightly . 
Propeller flutter , '' or vibration , may be due to faulty pitch angle , balance , camber , or surface area . 
It causes a condition sometimes mistaken for engine trouble , and one which may easily lead to the collapse of the propeller . 
The care of propellers is of the greatest importance , as they become distorted very easily . 
Do not store them in a very damp or a very dry place . 
Do not store them where the sun will shine upon them . 
Never leave them long in a horizontal position or leaning up against a wall . 
They should be hung on horizontal pegs , and the position of the propellers should be vertical . 
If the points I have impressed upon you in these notes are not attended to , you may be sure of the following results . 
Lack of efficiency , resulting in less aeroplane speed and climb than would otherwise be the case . 
Propeller flutter'' and possible collapse . 
A bad stress upon the propeller shaft and its bearings . 
A propeller mounted in front of the main surface . 
A propeller mounted behind the main surface . 
Four bladed propellers are suitable only when the pitch is comparatively large . 
For a given pitch , and having regard to interference , '' they are not so efficient as two bladed propellers . 
The smaller the pitch , the less the gap , '' i . 
, the distance , measured in the direction of the thrust , between the spiral courses of the blades . 
It is very much the same as in the case of the aeroplane gap . 
For a given pitch , the gap of a four bladed propeller is only half that of a two bladed one . 
Therefore the four bladed propeller is only suitable for large pitch , as such pitch produces spirals with a large gap , thus offsetting the decrease in gap caused by the numerous blades . 
The greater the speed of rotation , the less the pitch for a given aeroplane speed . 
The fabric must be kept clean and free from oil , as that will rot it . 
To take out dirt or oily patches , try acetone . 
If that will not remedy matters , then try petrol , but use it sparingly , as otherwise it will take off an unnecessary amount of dope . 
Use the water sparingly , or it may get inside the planes and rust the internal bracing wires , or cause some of the wooden framework to swell . 
The wheels of the undercarriage have a way of throwing up mud on to the lower surface . 
This should , if possible , be taken off while wet . 
It should never be scraped off when dry , as that may injure the fabric . 
If dry , then it should be moistened before being removed . 
Measures should be taken to prevent dirt from collecting upon any part of the aeroplane , as , otherwise , excessive skin friction will be produced with resultant loss of flight speed . 
The wires , being greasy , collect dirt very easily . 
After every flight the rigger should pass his hand over the control cables and carefully examine them near pulleys . 
Removal of grease may be necessary to make a close inspection possible . 
If only one strand is broken the wire should be replaced . 
Do not forget the aileron balance wire on the top surface . 
Once a day try the tension of the control cables by smartly moving the control levers about as explained elsewhere . 
All the wires should be kept well greased or oiled , and in the correct tension . 
When examining the wires , it is necessary to place the aeroplane on level ground , as otherwise it may be twisted , thus throwing some wires into undue tension and slackening others . 
The best way , if there is time , is to pack the machine up into its flying position . 
'' If you see a slack wire , do not jump to the conclusion that it must be tensioned . 
Perhaps its opposition wire is too tight , in which case slacken it , and possibly you will find that will tighten the slack wire . 
The wires inside the fuselage should be cleaned and regreased about once a fortnight . 
These should be carefully examined to see if any splitting has occurred . 
Carefully examine all surfaces , including the controlling surfaces , to see whether any distortion has occurred . 
If distortion can be corrected by the adjustment of wires , well and good but if not , then some of the internal framework probably requires replacement . 
Verify the angles of incidence dihedral , and stagger , and the rigging position of the controlling surfaces , as often as possible . 
Constantly examine the alignment and fittings of the undercarriage , and the condition of tyres and shock absorbers . 
The latter , when made of rubber , wear quickest underneath . 
Inspect axles and skids to see if there are any signs of them becoming bent . 
The wheels should be taken off occasionally and greased . 
Constantly inspect the locking arrangements of turnbuckles , bolts , etc . 
Pay particular attention to the control cable connections , and to all moving parts in respect of the controls . 
Keep all moving parts , such as pulleys , control levers , and hinges of controlling surfaces , well greased . 
This will take from two to three hours , according to the type of aeroplane . 
In order to carry it out methodically , the rigger should have a list of every part down to the smallest split pin . 
He can then check the parts as he examines them , and nothing will be passed over . 
This , I know from experience , greatly increases the confidence of the pilot , and tends to produce good work in the air . 
This should be practiced at every opportunity , and , if persevered in , it is possible to become quite expert in diagnosing by eye faults in flight efficiency , stability and control . 
The aeroplane should be standing upon level ground , or , better than that , packed up into its flying position . 
'' Now stand in front of it and line up the leading edge with the main spar , rear spar , and trailing edge . 
Their shadows can usually be seen through the fabric . 
Allowance must , of course , be made for wash in and wash out otherwise , the parts I have specified should be parallel with each other . 
Now line up the centre part of the main plane with the tail plane . 
The latter should be horizontal . 
Next , sight each interplane front strut with its rear strut . 
Then , standing on one side of the aeroplane , sight all the front struts . 
The one nearest to you should cover all the others . 
This applies to the rear struts also . 
Look for distortion of leading edges , main and rear spars , trailing edges , tail plane and controlling surfaces . 
This is the cause of a lot of unnecessary damage . 
The golden rule to observe is PRODUCE NO BENDING STRESSES . 
Nearly all the wood in an aeroplane is designed to take merely the stress of direct compression , and it cannot be bent safely . 
Such supports should be covered with soft packing in order to prevent the fabric from becoming damaged . 
When pulling an aeroplane along , if possible , pull from the top of the undercarriage struts . 
If necessary to pull from elsewhere , then do so by grasping the interplane struts as low down as possible . 
Never lay fabric covered parts upon a concrete floor . 
Any slight movement will cause the fabric to scrape over the floor with resultant damage . 
Struts , spars , etc . 
, should never be left about the floor , as in such position they are likely to become scored . 
I have already explained the importance of protecting the outside fibres of the wood . 
Remember also that wood becomes distorted easily . 
This particularly applies to interplane struts . 
If there are no proper racks to stand them in , then the best plan is to lean them up against the wall in as near a vertical position as possible . 
Learn to know the time necessary to complete any of the various rigging jobs . 
This should be kept as clean and orderly as possible . 
A clean , smart shed produces briskness , energy , and pride of work . 
A dirty , disorderly shed nearly always produces slackness and poor quality of work , lost tools and mislaid material . 
GLOSSARY Aeronautics The science of aerial navigation . 
Always cambered when intended to secure a reaction in one direction only . 
, the planes'' or wings , '' and the stabilizers and the controlling aerofoils . 
Aerodrome The name usually applied to a ground used for the practice of aviation . 
It really means flying machine , '' but is never used in that sense nowadays . 
Aeroplane A power driven aerofoil with stabilizing and controlling surfaces . 
Acceleration The rate of change of velocity . 
Angle of Incidence The angle at which the neutral lift line'' of a surface attacks the air . 
Angle of Incidence , Rigger's The angle the chord of a surface makes with a line parallel to the axis of the propeller . 
, and weight , horizontal flight can be maintained . 
, and weight , horizontal flight can be maintained . 
Angle of Incidence , Best Climbing That angle of incidence at which an aeroplane ascends quickest . 
An angle approximately halfway between the maximum and optimum angles . 
Angle of Incidence , Optimum The angle of incidence at which the lift drift ratio is the highest . 
Angle , Gliding The angle between the horizontal and the path along which an aeroplane at normal flying speed , but not under engine power , descends in still air . 
Angle , Dihedral The angle between two planes . 
Angle , Lateral Dihedral The lifting surface of an aeroplane is said to be at a lateral dihedral angle when it is inclined upward towards its wing tips . 
Angle , Rigger's Longitudinal Dihedral Ditto , but substituting chords'' for neutral life lines . 
Altimeter An instrument used for measuring height . 
Air Speed Indicator An instrument used for measuring air pressures or velocities . 
It consequently indicates whether the surface is securing the requisite reaction for flight . 
Usually calibrated in miles per hour , in which case it indicates the correct number of miles per hour at only one altitude . 
It would be more correct to calibrate it in units of air pressure . 
Air Pocket A local movement or condition of the air causing an aeroplane to drop or lose its correct attitude . 
Aspect Ratio The proportion of span to chord of a surface . 
A surface so shaped that its rotation about an axis produces a force in the direction of its axis . 
Aileron A controlling surface , usually situated at the wing tip , the operation of which turns an aeroplane about its longitudinal axis causes an aeroplane to tilt sideways . 
Aviation The art of driving an aeroplane . 
Aviator The driver of an aeroplane . 
Barograph A recording barometer , the charts of which can be calibrated for showing air density or height . 
Barometer An instrument used for indicating the density of air . 
when turning to left or right . 
Biplane An aeroplane of which the main lifting surface consists of a surface or pair of wings mounted above another surface or pair of wings . 
Bay The space enclosed by two struts and whatever they are fixed to . 
Boom A term usually applied to the long spars joining the tail of a pusher'' aeroplane to its main lifting surface . 
Bracing A system of struts and tie wires to transfer a force from one point to another . 
was mounted in front of the main lifting surface . 
Sometimes termed tail first'' aeroplanes , but such term is erroneous , as in such a design the main lifting surface acts as , and is , the empennage . 
Cabre To fly or glide at an excessive angle of incidence tail down . 
Chord Usually taken to be a straight line between the trailing and leading edges of a surface . 
Cell The whole of the lower surface , that part of the upper surface directly over it , together with the struts and wires holding them together . 
of Pressure , Resultant A line transverse to the longitudinal axis , and the position of which is the resultant of the centres of pressure of two or more surfaces . 
Centre of Gravity The centre of weight . 
Cabane A combination of two pylons , situated over the fuselage , and from which anti lift wires are suspended . 
'' Is applied to the bell shaped construction which forms the lower part of the pilot's control lever in a Bleriot monoplane , and to which the control cables are attached . 
Centrifugal Force Every body which moves in a curved path is urged outwards from the centre of the curve by a force termed centrifugal . 
'' Control Lever A lever by means of which the controlling surfaces are operated . 
It usually operates the ailerons and elevator . 
Cavitation , Propeller The tendency to produce a cavity in the air . 
passing through and attached to all the ribs in order to prevent them from rolling over sideways . 
'' Sometimes termed head resistance . 
'' Drift , Active Drift produced by the lifting surface . 
Drift , Passive Drift produced by the detrimental surface . 
Drift Analogous to the drift of an aeroplane . 
It is convenient to include cavitation'' within this term . 
Drift , to To be carried by a current of air to make leeway . 
Dive , to To descend so steeply as to produce a speed greater than the normal flying speed . 
Dope , to To paint a fabric with a special fluid for the purpose of tightening and protecting it . 
Density Mass of unit volume , for instance , pounds per cubic foot . 
The above terms can , of course , be expressed in foot pounds . 
It is then only necessary to divide the upper term by the lower one to find the measure of efficiency . 
For instance , a given weight of coal or petroleum stores a given quantity of energy which may be expressed in foot pounds . 
Extension That part of the upper surface extending beyond the span of the lower surface . 
Edge , Leading The front edge of a surface relative to its normal direction of motion . 
Edge , Trailing The rear edge of a surface relative to its normal direction of motion . 
Factor of Safety Usually taken to mean the result found by dividing the stress at which a body will collapse by the maximum stress it will be called upon to bear . 
Fineness The proportion of length to maximum width . 
Flying Position A special position in which an aeroplane must be placed when rigging it or making adjustments . 
It varies with different types of aeroplanes . 
Would be more correctly described as rigging position . 
'' Fuselage That part of an aeroplane containing the pilot , and to which is fixed the tail plane . 
Fin Additional keel surface , usually mounted at the rear of an aeroplane . 
That horizontal part of a rib which prevents it from bending sideways . 
Flight The sustenance of a body heavier than air by means of its action upon the air . 
Foot pound A measure of work representing the weight of lb . 
Gravity Is the force of the Earth's attraction upon a body . 
It decreases with increase of distance from the Earth . 
'' Gravity , Specific Density of substance Density of water . 
Thus , if the density of water is lb . 
per unit volume , the same unit volume of petrol , if weighing lb . 
, would be said to have a specific gravity of , i . 
The distance between the upper and lower surfaces of a biplane . 
In a triplane or multiplane , the distance between a surface and the one first above it . 
Gap , Propeller The distance , measured in the direction of the thrust , between the spiral courses of the blades . 
Girder A structure designed to resist bending , and to combine lightness and strength . 
Gyroscope A heavy circular wheel revolving at high speed , the effect of which is a tendency to maintain its plane of rotation against disturbing forces . 
The resistance of the air to the passage of a body . 
Helicopter An air screw revolving about a vertical axis , the direction of its thrust being opposed to gravity . 
Horizontal Equivalent The plan view of a body whatever its attitude may be . 
Impulse A force causing a body to gain or lose momentum . 
Inclinometer A curved form of spirit level used for indicating the attitude of a body relative to the horizontal . 
Instability An inherent tendency of a body , which , if the body is disturbed , causes it to move into a position as far as possible away from its first position . 
Inertia The inherent resistance to displacement of a body as distinct from resistance the result of an external force . 
Joy Stick See Control Lever . 
'' Keel Surface Everything to be seen when viewing an aeroplane from the side of it . 
When used in connection with a controlling surface , it usually performs the additional function of a lever , control cables connecting its ends with the pilot's control lever . 
Lift The vertical component of the reaction produced by the action of driving through the air a surface inclined upwards and towards its direction of motion . 
Lift , Margin of The height an aeroplane can gain in a given time and starting from a given altitude . 
Lift Drift Ratio The proportion of lift to drift . 
Loading The weight carried by an aerofoil . 
Usually expressed in pounds per square foot of superficial area . 
Longeron The term usually applied to any long spar running length ways of a fuselage . 
Mass The mass of a body is a measure of the quantity of material in it . 
Momentum The product of the mass and velocity of a body is known as momentum . 
'' Monoplane An aeroplane of which the main lifting surface consists of one surface or one pair of wings . 
Multiplane An aeroplane of which the main lifting surface consists of numerous surfaces or pairs of wings mounted one above the other . 
Nacelle That part of an aeroplane containing the engine and pilot and passenger , and to which the tail plane is not fixed . 
Neutral Lift Line A line taken through a surface in a forward direction relative to its direction of motion , and starting from its trailing edge . 
The position of the neutral lift line , i . 
, the angle it makes with the chord , varies with differences of camber , and it is found by means of wind tunnel research . 
If a body be at rest , it will remain at rest or , if in motion , it will move uniformly in a straight line until acted upon by some force . 
is proportional to the force which causes it , and takes place in the direction of the straight line in which the force acts . 
If a body be acted upon by several forces , it will obey each as though the others did not exist , and this whether the body be at rest or in motion . 
To every action there is opposed an equal and opposite reaction . 
A flapping wing design of aircraft intended to imitate the flight of a bird . 
Outrigger This term is usually applied to the framework connecting the main surface with an elevator placed in advance of it . 
Sometimes applied to the tail boom'' framework connecting the tail plane with the main lifting surface . 
Pancake , to To stall '' Plane This term is often applied to a lifting surface . 
Such application is not quite correct , since plane'' indicates a flat surface , and the lifting surfaces are always cambered . 
'' Propeller , Tractor An air screw mounted in front of the main lifting surface . 
Propeller , Pusher An air screw mounted behind the main lifting surface . 
Pusher An aeroplane of which the propeller is mounted behind the main lifting surface . 
Pylon Any V shaped construction from the point of which wires are taken . 
Power , Horse One horse power represents a force sufficient to raise , lbs . 
The latter is usually termed brake horse power , '' since it may be measured by an absorption brake . 
Power , Margin of The available quantity of power above that necessary to maintain horizontal flight at the optimum angle . 
Pitch , Propeller The distance a propeller advances during one revolution supposing the air to be solid . 
Pitch , to To plunge nose down . 
Reaction A force , equal and opposite to the force of the action producing it . 
Roll , to To turn about the longitudinal axis . 
Rib , Ordinary A light curved wooden part mounted in a fore and aft direction within a surface . 
The ordinary ribs give the surface its camber , carry the fabric , and transfer the lift from the fabric to the spars . 
Rib , Compression Acts as an ordinary rib , besides bearing the stress of compression produced by the tension of the internal bracing wires . 
Rib , False A subsidiary rib , usually used to improve the camber of the front part of the surface . 
Right and Left Hand Always used relative to the position of the pilot . 
When observing an aeroplane from the front of it , the right hand side of it is then on the left hand of the observer . 
Remou A local movement or condition of the air which may cause displacement of an aeroplane . 
Rudder Bar A control lever moved by the pilot's feet , and operating the rudder . 
Surface , Controlling A surface the operation of which turns an aeroplane about one of its axes . 
Skin Friction The friction of the air with roughness of surface . 
Span The distance from wing tip to wing tip . 
Stagger The distance the upper surface is forward of the lower surface when the axis of the propeller is horizontal . 
Stability The inherent tendency of a body , when disturbed , to return to its normal position . 
Stability , Directional The stability about an axis which is vertical during normal horizontal flight , and without which an aeroplane has no natural tendency to remain upon its course . 
Stability , Longitudinal The stability of an aeroplane about an axis transverse to the direction of normal horizontal flight , and without which it has no tendency to oppose pitching and tossing . 
Stability , Lateral The stability of an aeroplane about its longitudinal axis , and without which it has no tendency to oppose sideways rolling . 
Stabilizer A surface , such as fin or tail plane , designed to give an aeroplane inherent stability . 
'' Stress Burden or load . 
Strain Deformation produced by stress . 
Side Slip , to To fall as a result of an excessive bank'' or roll . 
'' Skid , to To be carried sideways by centrifugal force when turning to left or right . 
Skid , Undercarriage A spar , mounted in a fore and aft direction , and to which the wheels of the undercarriage are sometimes attached . 
Should a wheel give way the skid is then supposed to act like the runner of a sleigh and to support the aeroplane . 
Section Any separate part of the top surface , that part of the bottom surface immediately underneath it , with their struts and wires . 
Spar Any long piece of wood or other material . 
Spar , Main A spar within a surface and to which all the ribs are attached , such spar being the one situated nearest to the centre of pressure . 
It transfers more than half the lift from the ribs to the bracing . 
It transfers less than half of the lift from the ribs to the bracing . 
Strut Any wooden member intended to take merely the stress of direct compression . 
Strut , Interplane A strut holding the top and bottom surfaces apart . 
Strut , Fuselage A strut holding the fuselage longerons apart . 
It should be stated whether top , bottom , or side . 
If side , then it should be stated whether right or left hand . 
Strut , Extension A strut supporting an extension'' when not in flight . 
It may also prevent the extension from collapsing upwards during flight . 
Strut , Undercarriage Strut , Dope A strut within a surface , so placed as to prevent the tension of the doped fabric from distorting the framework . 
Serving To bind round with wire , cord , or similar material . 
Usually used in connection with wood joints and wire cable splices . 
Slip , Propeller The pitch less the distance the propeller advances during one revolution . 
Stream Line A form or shape of detrimental surface designed to produce minimum drift . 
Toss , to To plunge tail down . 
Torque , Propeller The tendency of a propeller to turn an aeroplane about its longitudinal axis in a direction opposite to that in which the propeller revolves . 
Tail Slide A fall whereby the tail of an aeroplane leads . 
Tractor An aeroplane of which the propeller is mounted in front of the main lifting surface . 
Triplane An aeroplane of which the main lifting surface consists of three surfaces or pairs of wings mounted one above the other . 
Tail Plane A horizontal stabilizing surface mounted at some distance behind the main lifting surface . 
Turnbuckle A form of wire tightener , consisting of a barrel into each end of which is screwed an eyebolt . 
Wires are attached to the eyebolts and the required degree of tension is secured by means of rotating the barrel . 
Thrust , Propeller See Air Screw . 
'' Undercarriage That part of an aeroplane beneath the fuselage or nacelle , and intended to support the aeroplane when at rest , and to absorb the shock of alighting . 
Velocity Rate of displacement speed . 
The standard unit of weight in this country is lb . 
, and is the force of the Earth's attraction on a piece of platinum called the standard pound , deposited with the Board of Trade in London . 
At the centre of the Earth a body will be attracted with equal force in every direction . 
It will therefore have no weight , though its mass is unchanged . 
Gravity , of which weight is a measure , decreases with increase of altitude . 
That vertical part of a rib which prevents it from bending upwards . 
Warp , to To distort a surface in order to vary its angle of incidence . 
To vary the angle of incidence of a controlling surface . 
Wash The disturbance of air produced by the flight of an aeroplane . 
Wash in An increasing angle of incidence of a surface towards its wing tip . 
Wash out A decreasing angle of incidence of a surface towards its wing tip . 
Wing tip The right or left hand extremity of a surface . 
Wire A wire is , in Aeronautics , always known by the name of its function . 
Wire , Lift or Flying A wire opposed to the direction of lift , and used to prevent a surface from collapsing upward during flight . 
Wire , Anti lift or Landing A wire opposed to the direction of gravity , and used to sustain a surface when it is at rest . 
Wire , Drift A wire opposed to the direction of drift , and used to prevent a surface from collapsing backwards during flight . 
Wire , Anti drift A wire opposed to the tension of a drift wire , and used to prevent such tension from distorting the framework . 
Wire , Incidence A wire running from the top of an interplane strut to the bottom of the interplane strut in front of or behind it . 
It maintains the stagger'' and assists in maintaining the angle of incidence . 
'' Wire , Bracing Any wire holding together the framework of any part of an aeroplane . 
It is not , however , usually applied to the wires described above unless the function performed includes a function additional to those described above . 
It will then be said to be an undercarriage bracing lift wire . 
'' It might , perhaps , be acting as a drift wire also , in which case it will then be de scribed as an undercarriage bracing lift drift wire . 
bottom , cross , or side . 
If a side bracing wire , '' then it should be stated whether right or left hand . 
Wire , Top Bracing A bracing wire , approximately horizontal and situated between the top longerons of fuselate , between top tail booms , or at the top of similar construction . 
Wire , Bottom Bracing Ditto , substituting bottom'' for top . 
'' Wire , Side Bracing A bracing wire crossing diagonally a side bay of fuselage , tail boom bay , undercarriage side bay or centre section side bay . 
This term is not usually used with reference to incidence wires , although they cross diagonally the side bays of the cell . 
It should be stated whether right or left hand . 
Wire , Cross Bracing A bracing wire , the position of which is diagonal from right to left when viewing it from the front of an aeroplane . 
Wire , Control Bracing A wire preventing distortion of a controlling surface . 
Wire , Control A wire connecting a controlling surface with the pilot's control lever , wheel , or rudder bar . 
Wire , Aileron Gap A wire connecting top and bottom ailerons . 
Wire , Aileron Balance A wire connecting the right and left hand top ailerons . 
Sometimes termed the aileron compensating wire . 
'' Wire , Snaking A wire , usually of soft metal , wound spirally or tied round another wire , and attached at each end to the framework . 
Used to prevent the wire round which it is snaked'' from becoming , in the event of its displacement , entangled with the propeller . 
Wire , Locking A wire used to prevent a turnbuckle barrel or other fitting from losing its adjustment . 
Wing Strictly speaking , a wing is one of the surfaces of an ornithopter . 
'' Wind Tunnel A large tube used for experimenting with surfaces and models , and through which a current of air is made to flow by artificial means . 
Wind Screen A small transparent screen mounted in front of the pilot to protect his face from the air pressure . 
