The text is that of the first American book edition , Macmillan and Co . 
It was she who invented the short cut , who severed the Gordian knot . 
Simply ask them to take you in on the footing of a lodger I don't think that unaided I should have risen to that . 
Her actual knowledge of the Misses Bordereau was scarcely larger than mine , and indeed I had brought with me from England some definite facts which were new to her . 
, who asked no favors and desired no attention . 
, she should at least not have it on her conscience . 
This was not encouraging for me , who wished to sit so fast , and I remarked as much to Mrs. Prest . 
She however replied with profundity , Ah , but there's all the difference I went to confer a favor and you will go to ask one . 
If they are proud you will be on the right side . 
And she offered to show me their house to begin with to row me thither in her gondola . 
I let her know that I had already been to look at it half a dozen times but I accepted her invitation , for it charmed me to hover about the place . 
, and I had besieged it with my eyes while I considered my plan of campaign . 
Jeffrey Aspern had never been in it that I knew of but some note of his voice seemed to abide there by a roundabout implication , a faint reverberation . 
Mrs. Prest knew nothing about the papers , but she was interested in my curiosity , as she was always interested in the joys and sorrows of her friends . 
She pretended to make light of his genius , and I took no pains to defend him . 
One doesn't defend one's god one's god is in himself a defense . 
The most I said was that he was no doubt not a woman's poet to which she rejoined aptly enough that he had been at least Miss Bordereau's . 
Nonetheless she was very far advanced in life , and her relations with Jeffrey Aspern had occurred in her early womanhood . 
That is her excuse , said Mrs. Prest , half sententiously and yet also somewhat as if she were ashamed of making a speech so little in the real tone of Venice . 
, but one of the most genial men and one of the handsomest . 
The niece , according to Mrs. Prest , was not so old , and she risked the conjecture that she was only a grandniece . 
This was possible I had nothing but my share in the very limited knowledge of my English fellow worshipper John Cumnor , who had never seen the couple . 
The world , as I say , had recognized Jeffrey Aspern , but Cumnor and I had recognized him most . 
The multitude , today , flocked to his temple , but of that temple he and I regarded ourselves as the ministers . 
We held , justly , as I think , that we had done more for his memory than anyone else , and we had done it by opening lights into his life . 
He had nothing to fear from us because he had nothing to fear from the truth , which alone at such a distance of time we could be interested in establishing . 
His early death had been the only dark spot in his life , unless the papers in Miss Bordereau's hands should perversely bring out others . 
Each of these cases Cumnor and I had been able to investigate , and we had never failed to acquit him conscientiously of shabby behavior . 
I judged him perhaps more indulgently than my friend certainly , at any rate , it appeared to me that no man could have walked straighter in the given circumstances . 
These were almost always awkward . 
That voice , by every testimony , was one of the sweetest ever heard . 
Orpheus and the Maenads ! was the exclamation that rose to my lips when I first turned over his correspondence . 
Most dead of all did poor Miss Bordereau appear , and yet she alone had survived . 
We exhausted in the course of months our wonder that we had not found her out sooner , and the substance of our explanation was that she had kept so quiet . 
The poor lady on the whole had had reason for doing so . 
And she had taken no great trouble about it either she had not hidden herself away in an undiscoverable hole she had boldly settled down in a city of exhibition . 
The only secret of her safety that we could perceive was that Venice contained so many curiosities that were greater than she . 
Mrs. Prest had not mentioned this much to anyone she appeared almost to have forgotten she was there . 
Of course she had not the responsibilities of an editor . 
to France , to Germany , to Italy , in which countries , not counting his important stay in England , so many of the too few years of Aspern's career were spent . 
, we had only touched in passing and in the most discreet manner on Miss Bordereau's connection . 
, it would have been the most difficult episode to handle . 
The gondola stopped , the old palace was there it was a house of the class which in Venice carries even in extreme dilapidation the dignified name . 
How charming ! It's gray and pink ! my companion exclaimed and that is the most comprehensive description of it . 
It overlooked a clean , melancholy , unfrequented canal , which had a narrow riva or convenient footway on either side . 
I don't know why there are no brick gables , said Mrs. Prest , but this corner has seemed to me before more Dutch than Italian , more like Amsterdam than like Venice . 
It's perversely clean , for reasons of its own and though you can pass on foot scarcely anyone ever thinks of doing so . 
It has the air of a Protestant Sunday . 
Perhaps the people are afraid of the Misses Bordereau . 
I daresay they have the reputation of witches . 
I forget what answer I made to this I was given up to two other reflections . 
I expressed this idea to Mrs. Prest , who gave me a very logical reply . 
Besides , a big house here , and especially in this quartier perdu , proves nothing at all it is perfectly compatible with a state of penury . 
Dilapidated old palazzi , if you will go out of the way for them , are to be had for five shillings a year . 
And as for the people who live in them no , until you have explored Venice socially as much as I have you can form no idea of their domestic desolation . 
They live on nothing , for they have nothing to live on . 
The other idea that had come into my head was connected with a high blank wall which appeared to confine an expanse of ground on one side of the house . 
The place was a garden , and apparently it belonged to the house . 
It suddenly occurred to me that if it did belong to the house I had my pretext . 
from the shade of our felze , and she asked me if I would go in then , while she waited for me , or come back another time . 
At first I could not decide it was doubtless very weak of me . 
, I had not the resource of simply offering them a sum of money down . 
In that way I might obtain the documents without bad nights . 
which pushed me to throw myself upon your ingenuity . 
I can arrive at the papers only by putting her off her guard , and I can put her off her guard only by ingratiating diplomatic practices . 
Hypocrisy , duplicity are my only chance . 
I am sorry for it , but for Jeffrey Aspern's sake I would do worse still . 
First I must take tea with her then tackle the main job . 
And I told over what had happened to John Cumnor when he wrote to her . 
No notice whatever had been taken of his first letter , and the second had been answered very sharply , in six lines , by the niece . 
Miss Bordereau requested her to say that she could not imagine what he meant by troubling them . 
They had none of Mr. Aspern's papers , and if they had should never think of showing them to anyone on any account whatever . 
She didn't know what he was talking about and begged he would let her alone . 
I certainly did not want to be met that way . 
Well , said Mrs. Prest after a moment , provokingly , perhaps after all they haven't any of his things . 
Besides , he makes much of the internal evidence of the niece's letter . 
The internal evidence ? Her calling him 'Mr . 
I don't see what that proves . 
It proves familiarity , and familiarity implies the possession of mementoes , or relics . 
I can't tell you how that 'Mr . 
touches me how it bridges over the gulf of time and brings our hero near to me nor what an edge it gives to my desire to see Juliana . 
You don't say , 'Mr . 
If they were to ask him point blank if he were not their correspondent it would be too awkward for him to lie whereas I was fortunately not tied in that way . 
I was a fresh hand and could say no without lying . 
But you will have to change your name , said Mrs. Prest . 
I have thought of that , I returned and I drew out of my pocketbook a visiting card , neatly engraved with a name that was not my own . 
You are very extravagant you might have written it , said my companion . 
Certainly , you are prepared to go far ! But it will be awkward about your letters they won't come to you in that mask . 
My banker will take them in , and I will go every day to fetch them . 
It will give me a little walk . 
Shall you only depend upon that ? asked Mrs. Prest . 
Aren't you coming to see me ? Oh , you will have left Venice , for the hot months , long before there are any results . 
She will recognize his hand , my companion suggested . 
On the envelope he can disguise it . 
And what may that be ? I hesitated a moment . 
To make love to the niece . 
The place was impressive but it looked cold and cautious . 
It had the effect of one indeed , for it brought her , as I say , all the way down . 
She colored , she smiled and looked both frightened and pleased . 
I could see that my arrival was a great affair , that visits were rare in that house , and that she was a person who would have liked a sociable place . 
When she pushed forward the heavy door behind me I felt that I had a foot in the citadel . 
She pattered across the damp , stony lower hall and I followed her up the high staircase stonier still , as it seemed without an invitation . 
I think she had meant I should wait for her below , but such was not my idea , and I took up my station in the sala . 
With the exception of several straw bottomed chairs with their backs to the wall , the grand obscure vista contained nothing else to minister to effect . 
It was evidently never used save as a passage , and little even as that . 
I may add that by the time the door opened again through which the maidservant had escaped , my eyes had grown used to the want of light . 
Oh , you are English how delightful ! I remarked , ingenuously . 
But surely the garden belongs to the house ? Yes , but the house doesn't belong to me . 
She was a long , lean , pale person , habited apparently in a dull colored dressing gown , and she spoke with a kind of mild literalness . 
she had asked Mrs. Prest , and we stood face to face in the empty pompous hall . 
She had large eyes which were not bright , and a great deal of hair which was not dressed , and long fine hands which were possibly not clean . 
If it wasn't for that ! And she gave a shy , melancholy smile . 
I appeal to your own experience , I went on , smiling . 
Now can't I look at yours ? I don't know , I don't understand , the poor woman murmured , planted there and letting her embarrassed eyes wander all over my strangeness . 
I mean only from one of those windows such grand ones as you have here if you will let me open the shutters . 
And I walked toward the back of the house . 
When I had advanced halfway I stopped and waited , as if I took it for granted she would accompany me . 
I had been of necessity very abrupt , but I strove at the same time to give her the impression of extreme courtesy . 
I have been looking at furnished rooms all over the place , and it seems impossible to find any with a garden attached . 
Naturally in a place like Venice gardens are rare . 
It's absurd if you like , for a man , but I can't live without flowers . 
There are none to speak of down there . 
She came nearer to me , as if , though she mistrusted me , I had drawn her by an invisible thread . 
I went on again , and she continued as she followed me We have a few , but they are very common . 
It costs too much to cultivate them one has to have a man . 
Why shouldn't I be the man ? I asked . 
I'll work without wages or rather I'll put in a gardener . 
You shall have the sweetest flowers in Venice . 
She protested at this , with a queer little sigh which might also have been a gush of rapture at the picture I presented . 
Then she observed , We don't know you we don't know you . 
You know me as much as I know you that is much more , because you know my name . 
And if you are English I am almost a countryman . 
We are not English , said my companion , watching me helplessly while I threw open the shutters of one of the divisions of the wide high window . 
You speak the language so beautifully might I ask what you are ? Seen from above the garden was certainly shabby but I perceived at a glance that it had great capabilities . 
Used to be ? Surely you haven't changed ? It's so many years ago we are nothing . 
So many years that you have been living here ? Well , I don't wonder at that it's a grand old house . 
I suppose you all use the garden , I went on , but I assure you I shouldn't be in your way . 
I would be very quiet and stay in one corner . 
We all use it ? she repeated after me , vaguely , not coming close to the window but looking at my shoes . 
She appeared to think me capable of throwing her out . 
I mean all your family , as many as you are . 
There is only one other she is very old she never goes down . 
Only one other , in all this great house ! I feigned to be not only amazed but almost scandalized . 
Dear lady , you must have space then to spare ! To spare ? she repeated , in the same dazed way . 
I ended by making my interlocutress believe that I was an honorable person , though of course I did not even attempt to persuade her that I was not an eccentric one . 
had an insatiable appetite for them . 
When I speak of my suit as won I mean that before I left her she had promised that she would refer the question to her aunt . 
I inquired who her aunt might be and she answered , Why , Miss Bordereau ! with an air of surprise , as if I might have been expected to know . 
There were contradictions like this in Tita Bordereau which , as I observed later , contributed to make her an odd and affecting person . 
We have never done anything of the sort we have never had a lodger or any kind of inmate . 
So much as this she made a point of saying to me . 
We are very poor , we live very badly . 
The rooms are very bare that you might take they have nothing in them . 
I don't know how you would sleep , how you would eat . 
With your permission , I could easily put in a bed and a few tables and chairs . 
C'est la moindre des choses and the affair of an hour or two . 
, can easily cook me a chop there . 
They were bad economists I had never heard of such a waste of material . 
She might easily have told me that my sympathy was impertinent , but this by good fortune did not occur to her . 
I left her with the understanding that she would consider the matter with her aunt and that I might come back the next day for their decision . 
The aunt will refuse she will think the whole proceeding very louche ! Mrs. Prest declared shortly after this , when I had resumed my place in her gondola . 
she appeared to take a despondent view of it . 
Her pessimism provoked me and I pretended to have the best hopes I went so far as to say that I had a distinct presentiment that I should succeed . 
If you do get in you'll count it as a triumph . 
, not for the man , who had not the tradition of personal conquest . 
into the apartment from which the recipient of my former visit had emerged on that occasion . 
It was a large shabby parlor , with a fine old painted ceiling and a strange figure sitting alone at one of the windows . 
Her presence seemed somehow to contain his , and I felt nearer to him at that first moment of seeing her than I ever had been before or ever have been since . 
Yes , I remember my emotions in their order , even including a curious little tremor that took me when I saw that the niece was not there . 
to be left alone with such a terrible relic as the aunt . 
She was too strange , too literally resurgent . 
I believed for the instant that she had put it on expressly , so that from underneath it she might scrutinize me without being scrutinized herself . 
At the same time it increased the presumption that there was a ghastly death's head lurking behind it . 
The divine Juliana as a grinning skull the vision hung there until it passed . 
Then it came to me that she WAS tremendously old so old that death might take her at any moment , before I had time to get what I wanted from her . 
The next thought was a correction to that it lighted up the situation . 
She would die next week , she would die tomorrow then I could seize her papers . 
Meanwhile she sat there neither moving nor speaking . 
She was very small and shrunken , bent forward , with her hands in her lap . 
She was dressed in black , and her head was wrapped in a piece of old black lace which showed no hair . 
My emotion keeping me silent she spoke first , and the remark she made was exactly the most unexpected . 
III Our house is very far from the center , but the little canal is very comme il faut . 
It's the sweetest corner of Venice and I can imagine nothing more charming , I hastened to reply . 
Please to sit down there . 
I hear very well , she said quietly , as if perhaps I had been shouting at her and the chair she pointed to was at a certain distance . 
I took possession of it , telling her that I was perfectly aware that I had intruded , that I had not been properly introduced and could only throw myself upon her indulgence . 
Perhaps the other lady , the one I had had the honor of seeing the day before , would have explained to her about the garden . 
That was literally what had given me courage to take a step so unconventional . 
, and I had felt it was really a case to risk something . 
Was her own kindness in receiving me a sign that I was not wholly out in my calculation ? It would render me extremely happy to think so . 
I could give her my word of honor that I was a most respectable , inoffensive person and that as an inmate they would be barely conscious of my existence . 
I would conform to any regulations , any restrictions if they would only let me enjoy the garden . 
Moreover I should be delighted to give her references , guarantees they would be of the very best , both in Venice and in England as well as in America . 
Independently of the refining process of old age it had a delicacy which once must have been great . 
She had been very fair , she had had a wonderful complexion . 
It's not in the middle of the sea you can't see the water . 
I stared a moment , wondering whether she wished to convict me of fraud . 
Can't see the water ? Why , dear madam , I can come up to the very gate in my boat . 
She appeared inconsequent , for she said vaguely in reply to this , Yes , if you have got a boat . 
I haven't any it's many years since I have been in one of the gondolas . 
She uttered these words as if the gondolas were a curious faraway craft which she knew only by hearsay . 
Let me assure you of the pleasure with which I would put mine at your service ! I exclaimed . 
But the old woman remained impenetrable and her attitude bothered me by suggesting that she had a fuller vision of me than I had of her . 
She gave me no thanks for my somewhat extravagant offer but remarked that the lady I had seen the day before was her niece she would presently come in . 
She had asked her to stay away a little on purpose , because she herself wished to see me at first alone . 
I hesitated but for a single instant , long enough to ask myself what she meant in particular by this condition . 
First it struck me that she must have really a large sum in her mind then I reasoned quickly that her idea of a large sum would probably not correspond to my own . 
Well then , a thousand francs a month , she rejoined instantly , while her baffling green shade continued to cover her attitude . 
The figure , as they say , was startling and my logic had been at fault . 
But so far as my small means allowed I was prepared to spend money , and my decision was quickly taken . 
I would pay her with a smiling face what she asked , but in that case I would give myself the compensation of extracting the papers from her for nothing . 
Moreover if she had asked five times as much I should have risen to the occasion so odious would it have appeared to me to stand chaffering with Aspern's Juliana . 
It was queer enough to have a question of money with her at all . 
I assured her that her views perfectly met my own and that on the morrow I should have the pleasure of putting three months' rent into her hand . 
She received this announcement with serenity and with no apparent sense that after all it would be becoming of her to say that I ought to see the rooms first . 
This did not occur to her and indeed her serenity was mainly what I wanted . 
Our little bargain was just concluded when the door opened and the younger lady appeared on the threshold . 
I think francs were what you said , I answered , smiling . 
That is very good , said Miss Tita , as if she had become conscious that her own question might have looked overreaching . 
What do YOU know ? You are ignorant , Miss Bordereau remarked not with acerbity but with a strange , soft coldness . 
Yes , of money certainly of money ! Miss Tita hastened to exclaim . 
I am sure you have your own branches of knowledge , I took the liberty of saying , genially . 
There was something painful to me , somehow , in the turn the conversation had taken , in the discussion of the rent . 
She had a very good education when she was young . 
I looked into that myself , said Miss Bordereau . 
Then she added , But she has learned nothing since . 
I have always been with you , Miss Tita rejoined very mildly , and evidently with no intention of making an epigram . 
Yes , but for that ! her aunt declared with more satirical force . 
Miss Bordereau went on , addressing herself to me And what time will you come tomorrow with the money ? The sooner the better . 
If it suits you I will come at noon . 
I am always here but I have my hours , said the old woman , as if her convenience were not to be taken for granted . 
You mean the times when you receive ? I never receive . 
But I will see you at noon , when you come with the money . 
For a minute she made no answer , and I saw that my proposal failed to meet with her approbation . 
She indulged in no movement of withdrawal , which I half expected she only said coldly , I belong to a time when that was not the custom . 
I looked at her for a moment . 
Whom should I be afraid of if I am not afraid of you ? she asked with her shrunken grimness . 
Ah well , said I , laughing , I shall be in point of fact a protector and I will bring gold if you prefer . 
Thank you , the old woman returned with dignity and with an inclination of her head which evidently signified that I might depart . 
I passed out of the room , reflecting that it would not be easy to circumvent her . 
She was not infirm , like her aunt , but she struck me as still more helpless , because her inefficiency was spiritual , which was not the case with Miss Bordereau's . 
I only observed at the end of a minute I have had better fortune than I hoped . 
It was very kind of her to see me . 
Perhaps you said a good word for me . 
It was the idea of the money , said Miss Tita . 
And did you suggest that ? I told her that you would perhaps give a good deal . 
What made you think that ? I told her I thought you were rich . 
And what put that idea into your head ? I don't know the way you talked . 
Dear me , I must talk differently now , I declared . 
I'm sorry to say it's not the case . 
Well , said Miss Tita , I think that in Venice the forestieri , in general , often give a great deal for something that after all isn't much . 
She appeared to make this remark with a comforting intention , to wish to remind me that if I had been extravagant I was not really foolishly singular . 
We walked together along the sala , and as I took its magnificent measure I said to her that I was afraid it would not form a part of my quartiere . 
And I infer that that's where your aunt would like me to be . 
She said your apartments ought to be very distinct . 
That certainly would be best . 
This was an immense point gained I foresaw that it would constitute my whole leverage in my relations with the two ladies . 
When I asked Miss Tita how I was to manage at present to find my way up she replied with an access of that sociable shyness which constantly marked her manner . 
I don't see unless I should go with you . 
She evidently had not thought of this before . 
We ascended to the upper floor and visited a long succession of empty rooms . 
The best of them looked over the garden some of the others had a view of the blue lagoon , above the opposite rough tiled housetops . 
My experiment was turning out costly , yet now that I had all but taken possession I ceased to allow this to trouble me . 
between the speeches she made on her own responsibility and those the old lady imposed upon her . 
She took no notice of the unswept condition of the rooms and indulged in no explanations nor apologies . 
were untidy persons , with a low Italian standard but I afterward recognized that a lodger who had forced an entrance had no locus standi as a critic . 
We looked out of a good many windows , for there was nothing within the rooms to look at , and still I wanted to linger . 
I asked her what several different objects in the prospect might be , but in no case did she appear to know . 
Suddenly she said the remark was not suggested I don't know whether it will make any difference to you , but the money is for me . 
The money ? The money you are going to bring . 
Why , you'll make me wish to stay here two or three years . 
I spoke as benevolently as possible , though it had begun to act on my nerves that with these women so associated with Aspern the pecuniary question should constantly come back . 
That would be very good for me , she replied , smiling . 
You put me on my honor ! She looked as if she failed to understand this , but went on She wants me to have more . 
She thinks she is going to die . 
Ah , not soon , I hope ! I exclaimed with genuine feeling . 
I had perfectly considered the possibility that she would destroy her papers on the day she should feel her end really approach . 
I would have given a good deal to have a glimpse of the latter spectacle . 
I asked Miss Tita if the old lady were seriously ill , and she replied that she was only very tired she had lived so very , very long . 
That was what she said herself she wanted to die for a change . 
Besides , all her friends were dead long ago either they ought to have remained or she ought to have gone . 
That was another thing her aunt often said she was not at all content . 
But people don't die when they like , do they ? Miss Tita inquired . 
She considered this difficult problem a moment and then she said , Oh , well , you know , she takes care of me . 
She thinks that when I'm alone I shall be a great fool , I shall not know how to manage . 
I should have supposed that you took care of her . 
I'm afraid she is very proud . 
Why , have you discovered that already ? Miss Tita cried with the glimmer of an illumination in her face . 
I was shut up with her there for a considerable time , and she struck me , she interested me extremely . 
It didn't take me long to make my discovery . 
She won't have much to say to me while I'm here . 
No , I don't think she will , my companion averred . 
Do you suppose she has some suspicion of me ? Miss Tita's honest eyes gave me no sign that I had touched a mark . 
I shouldn't think so letting you in after all so easily . 
Oh , so easily ! she has covered her risk . 
You would only have to mention them for me to respect them religiously . 
I don't know how the days pass . 
I wish I might think that I should bring you a little . 
Oh , we know what we want , she went on . 
There were various things I desired to ask her how in the world they did live whether they had any friends or visitors , any relations in America or in other countries . 
But I judged such an inquiry would be premature I must leave it to a later chance . 
Well , don't YOU be proud , I contented myself with saying . 
Don't hide from me altogether . 
Oh , I must stay with my aunt , she returned , without looking at me . 
And at the same moment , abruptly , without any ceremony of parting , she quitted me and disappeared , leaving me to make my own way downstairs . 
of the old house , thinking the situation over on the spot . 
Not even the pattering little serva came to look after me , and I reflected that after all this treatment showed confidence . 
I was obliged to confess to her that I had no results to speak of . 
My first step had been unexpectedly rapid , but there was no appearance that it would be followed by a second . 
I was a thousand miles from taking tea with my hostesses that privilege of which , as I reminded Mrs. Prest , we both had had a vision . 
for my want of success on my own premises . 
They'll lead you on to your ruin , she said before she left Venice . 
They'll get all your money without showing you a scrap . 
I think I settled down to my business with more concentration after she had gone away . 
It was a fact that up to that time I had not , save on a single brief occasion , had even a moment's contact with my queer hostesses . 
The exception had occurred when I carried them according to my promise the terrible three thousand francs . 
Then I found Miss Tita waiting for me in the hall , and she took the money from my hand so that I did not see her aunt . 
The old lady had promised to receive me , but she apparently thought nothing of breaking that vow . 
This she did with extreme solemnity , though I tried to treat the affair a little as a joke . 
It could only be evident that she was immensely on her guard against them and in addition to this the house was so big that for each other we were lost in it . 
I used to look out for her hopefully as I crossed the sala in my comings and goings , but I was not rewarded with a glimpse of the tail of her dress . 
It was as if she never peeped out of her aunt's apartment . 
I used to wonder what she did there week after week and year after year . 
I had never encountered such a violent parti pris of seclusion it was more than keeping quiet it was like hunted creatures feigning death . 
The two ladies appeared to have no visitors whatever and no sort of contact with the world . 
I judged at least that people could not have come to the house and that Miss Tita could not have gone out without my having some observation of it . 
I questioned my servant about their habits and let him divine that I should be interested in any information he could pick up . 
But he picked up amazingly little for a knowing Venetian it must be added that where there is a perpetual fast there are very few crumbs on the floor . 
His cleverness in other ways was sufficient , if it was not quite all that I had attributed to him on the occasion of my first interview with Miss Tita . 
He made me in short as comfortable as I could be with my indifferent prospects . 
But I tasted of no gossip from that fountain , and I afterward learned that Pasquale's affections were fixed upon an object that made him heedless of other women . 
This was a young lady with a powdered face , a yellow cotton gown , and much leisure , who used often to come to see him . 
, and kept an eye on the maiden in the house . 
It was not for me of course to make the domestics tattle , and I never said a word to Miss Bordereau's cook . 
It seemed to me a proof of the old lady's determination to have nothing to do with me that she should never have sent me a receipt for my three months' rent . 
, on the general ground of wishing to keep quiet . 
If Miss Bordereau suspected me of ulterior aims she would suspect me less if I should be businesslike , and yet I consented not to be so . 
It was possible she intended her omission as an impertinence , a visible irony , to show how she could overreach people who attempted to overreach her . 
On that hypothesis it was well to let her see that one did not notice her little tricks . 
She had given me part of her house , and now she would not give me even a morsel of paper with her name on it . 
Let me say that even at first this did not make me too miserable , for the whole episode was essentially delightful to me . 
I foresaw that I should have a summer after my own literary heart , and the sense of holding my opportunity was much greater than the sense of losing it . 
There could be no Venetian business without patience , and since I adored the place I was much more in the spirit of it for having laid in a large provision . 
That spirit kept me perpetual company and seemed to look out at me from the revived immortal face in which all his genius shone of the great poet who was my prompter . 
It was as if he had said , Poor dear , be easy with her she has some natural prejudices only give her time . 
Strange as it may appear to you she was very attractive in . 
I lingered in the sala when I went to and fro I used to watch as long as I thought decent the door that led to Miss Bordereau's part of the house . 
A person observing me might have supposed I was trying to cast a spell upon it or attempting some odd experiment in hypnotism . 
But I was only praying it would open or thinking what treasure probably lurked behind it . 
I lost myself in this satisfaction to the point of assuming in my quiet extravagance that poor Miss Tita also went back , went back , as I used to phrase it . 
She did indeed , the gentle spinster , but not quite so far as Jeffrey Aspern , who was simply hearsay to her , quite as he was to me . 
Only she had lived for years with Juliana , she had seen and handled the papers and some esoteric knowledge had rubbed off on her . 
That was what the old woman represented esoteric knowledge and this was the idea with which my editorial heart used to thrill . 
It literally beat faster often , of an evening , when I had been out , as I stopped with my candle in the re echoing hall on my way up to bed . 
These were the acute impressions . 
In these windows no sign of life ever appeared it was as if , for fear of my catching a glimpse of them , the two ladies passed their days in the dark . 
But this only proved to me that they had something to conceal which was what I had wished to demonstrate . 
Their motionless shutters became as expressive as eyes consciously closed , and I took comfort in thinking that at all events through invisible themselves they saw me between the lashes . 
I made a point of spending as much time as possible in the garden , to justify the picture I had originally given of my horticultural passion . 
And I not only spent time , but I spent money . 
I was sorry to do this , for personally I liked it better as it was , with its weeds and its wild , rough tangle , its sweet , characteristic Venetian shabbiness . 
I had to be consistent , to keep my promise that I would smother the house in flowers . 
Moreover I formed this graceful project that by flowers I would make my way I would succeed by big nosegays . 
I would batter the old women with lilies I would bombard their citadel with roses . 
Their door would have to yield to the pressure when a mountain of carnations should be piled up against it . 
The place in truth had been brutally neglected . 
The Venetian capacity for dawdling is of the largest , and for a good many days unlimited litter was all my gardener had to show for his ministrations . 
But I reflected that the ladies would see through the chinks of their shutters that they must have been bought and might make up their minds from this that I was a humbug . 
So I composed myself and finally , though the delay was long , perceived some appearances of bloom . 
This encouraged me , and I waited serenely enough till they multiplied . 
Meanwhile the real summer days arrived and began to pass , and as I look back upon them they seem to me almost the happiest of my life . 
I took more and more care to be in the garden whenever it was not too hot . 
It was clear that they must have had other habits and other circumstances that they must once have been young or at least middle aged . 
There was no end to the questions it was possible to ask about them and no end to the answers it was not possible to frame . 
Indeed it was plain that the American name had ceased to have any application to them I had seen this in the ten minutes I spent in the old woman's room . 
You could never have said whence they came , from the appearance of either of them wherever it was they had long ago dropped the local accent and fashion . 
There was nothing in them that one recognized , and putting the question of speech aside they might have been Norwegians or Spaniards . 
that he had come back for her sake . 
It was also indispensable that he should have been accompanied to Europe by these young ladies and should have established himself there for the remainder of a struggling , saddened life . 
had taken for granted that Juliana had not always adhered to the steep footway of renunciation . 
There hovered about her name a perfume of reckless passion , an intimation that she had not been exactly as the respectable young person in general . 
before her meeting with Jeffrey Aspern . 
, with tatters of old stuff and fragments of old crockery so that Miss Bordereau appeared not to have picked up or have inherited many objects of importance . 
There was no enviable bric a brac , with its provoking legend of cheapness , in the room in which I had seen her . 
Such a fact as that suggested bareness , but nonetheless it worked happily into the sentimental interest I had always taken in the early movements of my countrymen as visitors to Europe . 
There was something touching to me in all that , and my imagination frequently went back to the period . 
If Miss Bordereau carried it there of course Jeffrey Aspern at other times had done so a great deal more . 
It was a much more important fact , if one were looking at his genius critically , that he had lived in the days before the general transfusion . 
But as his fate had ordered otherwise I went with him I tried to judge how the Old World would have struck him . 
It was not only there , however , that I watched him the relations he had entertained with the new had even a livelier interest . 
His own country after all had had most of his life , and his muse , as they said at that time , was essentially American . 
, or in the splendid square which serves as a vast forecourt to the strange old basilica of Saint Mark . 
, is like an open air saloon dedicated to cooling drinks and to a still finer degustation that of the exquisite impressions received during the day . 
Their life seemed miles away from the life of the Piazza , and no doubt it was really too late to make the austere Juliana change her habits . 
But poor Miss Tita would have enjoyed one of Florian's ices , I was sure sometimes I even had thoughts of carrying one home to her . 
Fortunately my patience bore fruit , and I was not obliged to do anything so ridiculous . 
The temperature was very high it was such a night as one would gladly have spent in the open air , and I was in no hurry to go to bed . 
The odor of the canal was doubtless at the bottom of that aspiration and the breath of the garden , as I entered it , gave consistency to my purpose . 
it was delicious just such an air as must have trembled with Romeo's vows when he stood among the flowers and raised his arms to his mistress's balcony . 
had been followed but everything was dim , as usual , and everything was still . 
This however did not prevent my gratification from being great as I became aware on reaching the end of the garden that Miss Tita was seated in my little bower . 
I was going to turn away , not to frighten her , when the figure rose to its height and I recognized Miss Bordereau's niece . 
It was as if I had laid a trap for her by coming home earlier than usual and adding to that eccentricity by creeping into the garden . 
As she rose she spoke to me , and then I reflected that perhaps , secure in my almost inveterate absence , it was her nightly practice to take a lonely airing . 
There was no trap , in truth , because I had had no suspicion . 
She came out of the arbor almost as if she were going to throw herself into my arms . 
I hasten to add that she did nothing of the kind she did not even shake hands with me . 
It was a gratification to her to see me and presently she told me why because she was nervous when she was out of doors at night alone . 
The plants and bushes looked so strange in the dark , and there were all sorts of queer sounds she could not tell what they were like the noises of animals . 
She stood close to me , looking about her with an air of greater security but without any demonstration of interest in me as an individual . 
that it was impossible to overestimate her simplicity . 
You speak as if you were lost in the backwoods , I said , laughing . 
How you manage to keep out of this charming place when you have only three steps to take to get into it is more than I have yet been able to discover . 
You hide away mighty well so long as I am on the premises , I know but I had a hope that you peeped out a little at other times . 
You and your poor aunt are worse off than Carmelite nuns in their cells . 
Should you mind telling me how you exist without air , without exercise , without any sort of human contact ? I don't see how you carry on the common business of life . 
She looked at me as if I were talking some strange tongue , and her answer was so little of an answer that I was considerably irritated . 
We go to bed very early earlier than you would believe . 
I was on the point of saying that this only deepened the mystery when she gave me some relief by adding , Before you came we were not so private . 
But I never have been out at night . 
Why I didn't know they were for me ! They were for both of you . 
Why should I make a difference ? Miss Tita reflected as if she might by thinking of a reason for that , but she failed to produce one . 
Instead of this she asked abruptly , Why in the world do you want to know us ? I ought after all to make a difference , I replied . 
That question is your aunt's it isn't yours . 
You wouldn't ask it if you hadn't been put up to it . 
She didn't tell me to ask you , Miss Tita replied without confusion she was the oddest mixture of the shrinking and the direct . 
Well , she has often wondered about it herself and expressed her wonder to you . 
She has insisted on it , so that she has put the idea into your head that I am insufferably pushing . 
Upon my word I think I have been very discreet . 
I should like to go far away ! Has she always kept you back so ? I went on , to show her that I could be as irrelevant as herself . 
She told me to come out tonight she has told me very often , said Miss Tita . 
It is I who wouldn't come . 
I don't like to leave her . 
Is she too weak , is she failing ? I demanded , with more emotion , I think , than I intended to show . 
I judged this by the way her eyes rested upon me in the darkness . 
It embarrassed me a little , and to turn the matter off I continued genially Do let us sit down together comfortably somewhere , and you will tell me all about her . 
Miss Tita made no resistance to this . 
We were together more than an hour , and our interview gave , as it struck me , a great lift to my undertaking . 
Miss Tita accepted the situation without a protest she had avoided me for three months , yet now she treated me almost as if these three months had made me an old friend . 
If I had chosen I might have inferred from this that though she had avoided me she had given a good deal of consideration to doing so . 
She paid no attention to the flight of time never worried at my keeping her so long away from her aunt . 
She talked freely , answering questions and asking them and not even taking advantage of certain longish pauses with which they inevitably alternated to say she thought she had better go in . 
It was almost as if she were waiting for something something I might say to her and intended to give me my opportunity . 
I was the more struck by this as she told me that her aunt had been less well for a good many days and in a way that was rather new . 
She was weaker at moments it seemed as if she had no strength at all yet more than ever before she wished to be left alone . 
That was why she had told her to come out not even to remain in her own room , which was alongside she said her niece irritated her , made her nervous . 
Miss Tita confided to me that at present her aunt was so motionless that she sometimes feared she was dead moreover she took hardly any food one couldn't see what she lived on . 
The great thing was that she still on most days got up the serious job was to dress her , to wheel her out of her bedroom . 
She clung to as many of her old habits as possible and she had always , little company as they had received for years , made a point of sitting in the parlor . 
The story did not hang together , and I even asked myself whether it were not a trap laid for me , the result of a design to make me show my hand . 
should have this purpose why they should try to trip up so lucrative a lodger . 
At any rate I kept on my guard , so that Miss Tita should not have occasion again to ask me if I had an arriere pensee . 
Poor woman , before we parted for the night my mind was at rest as to HER capacity for entertaining one . 
She ceased wondering why I cared , and at last , as she spoke of the brilliant life they had led years before , she almost chattered . 
, there was scarcely a week that they had not some visitor or did not make some delightful passeggio in the city . 
they had had a collation there , brought in three baskets and spread out on the grass . 
I asked her what people they had known and she said , Oh ! very nice ones the Cavaliere Bombicci and the Contessa Altemura , with whom they had had a great friendship . 
Also English people the Churtons and the Goldies and Mrs. Stock Stock , whom they had loved dearly she was dead and gone , poor dear . 
, though a few were left , which was a wonder considering how they had neglected them . 
The last few years there had not been many presents she could not think what to make , and her aunt had lost her interest and never suggested . 
But the people came all the same if the Venetians liked you once they liked you forever . 
I judged that she had imbibed this invertebrate dialect from the natural way the names of things and people mostly purely local rose to her lips . 
If she knew little of what they represented she knew still less of anything else . 
If she had not been so decent her references would have seemed to carry one back to the queer rococo Venice of Casanova . 
I found myself falling into the error of thinking of her too as one of Jeffrey Aspern's contemporaries this came from her having so little in common with my own . 
I held it probable at all events that Miss Tita had not read a word of his poetry . 
Moreover if , with her companion , she had always escaped the interviewer there was little occasion for her having got it into her head that people were after the letters . 
People had not been after them , inasmuch as they had not heard of them and Cumnor's fruitless feeler would have been a solitary accident . 
When midnight sounded Miss Tita got up but she stopped at the door of the house only after she had wandered two or three times with me round the garden . 
When shall I see you again ? I asked before she went in to which she replied with promptness that she should like to come out the next night . 
She added however that she should not come she was so far from doing everything she liked . 
You might do a few things that I like , I said with a sigh . 
Oh , you I don't believe you ! she murmured at this , looking at me with her simple solemnity . 
Why don't you believe me ? Because I don't understand you . 
That is just the sort of occasion to have faith . 
Nothing less should I have seemed to do had I continued to beg a lady to believe in me in an Italian garden on a midsummer night . 
She insisted too on making the talk between us personal to ourselves and altogether her behavior was such as would have been possible only to a completely innocent woman . 
I shall like the flowers better now that I know they are also meant for me . 
How could you have doubted it ? If you will tell me the kind you like best I will send a double lot of them . 
The lamplight brings in the animals . 
You might have known that when you came . 
I did know it ! And in winter do you work at night ? I read a good deal , but I don't often write . 
So I went on In general before I go to sleep very often in bed , I read some great poet . 
In nine cases out of ten it's a volume of Jeffrey Aspern . 
I watched her well as I pronounced that name but I saw nothing wonderful . 
Why should I indeed was not Jeffrey Aspern the property of the human race ? Oh , we read him we HAVE read him , she quietly replied . 
He is my poet of poets I know him almost by heart . 
For an instant Miss Tita hesitated then her sociability was too much for her . 
Oh , by heart that's nothing ! she murmured , smiling . 
My aunt used to know him to know him she paused an instant and I wondered what she was going to say to know him as a visitor . 
As a visitor ? I repeated , staring . 
He used to call on her and take her out . 
My dear lady , he died a hundred years ago ! Well , she said mirthfully , my aunt is a hundred and fifty . 
Mercy on us ! I exclaimed why didn't you tell me before ? I should like so to ask her about him . 
She wouldn't care for that she wouldn't tell you , Miss Tita replied . 
I don't care what she cares for ! She MUST tell me it's not a chance to be lost . 
Oh , you should have come twenty years ago then she still talked about him . 
And what did she say ? I asked eagerly . 
I don't know that he liked her immensely . 
And she didn't she like him ? She said he was a god . 
Miss Tita gave me this information flatly , without expression her tone might have made it a piece of trivial gossip . 
But it stirred me deeply as she dropped the words into the summer night it seemed such a direct testimony . 
Fancy , fancy ! I murmured . 
And then , Tell me this , please has she got a portrait of him ? They are distressingly rare . 
A portrait ? I don't know , said Miss Tita and now there was discomfiture in her face . 
Well , good night ! she added and she turned into the house . 
I accompanied her into the wide , dusky , stone paved passage which on the ground floor corresponded with our grand sala . 
An extinguished candle which Miss Tita apparently had brought down with her stood on the same table with it . 
Good night , good night ! I replied , keeping beside her as she went to get her light . 
Surely you would know , shouldn't you , if she had one ? If she had what ? the poor lady asked , looking at me queerly over the flame of her candle . 
A portrait of the god . 
I don't know what I wouldn't give to see it . 
I don't know what she has got . 
She keeps her things locked up . 
And Miss Tita went away , toward the staircase , with the sense evidently that she had said too much . 
Therefore of course she had not any portrait . 
Miss Tita made no direct answer to this and , candle in hand , with her back to me , ascended two or three stairs . 
Then she stopped short and turned round , looking at me across the dusky space . 
Do you write do you write ? There was a shake in her voice she could scarcely bring out what she wanted to ask . 
All the more reason then that you should answer it . 
Do you , please ? I thought I had allowed for the falsehoods I should have to tell but I found that in fact when it came to the point I had not . 
Besides , now that I had an opening there was a kind of relief in being frank . 
, I guessed that Miss Tita personally would not in the last resort be less my friend . 
So after a moment's hesitation I answered , Yes , I have written about him and I am looking for more material . 
In heaven's name have you got any ? Santo Dio ! she exclaimed , without heeding my question and she hurried upstairs and out of sight . 
I might count upon her in the last resort , but for the present she was visibly alarmed . 
The proof of it was that she began to hide again , so that for a fortnight I never beheld her . 
I found my patience ebbing and after four or five days of this I told the gardener to stop the flowers . 
She put on no air of being there by accident there was an ignorance of such arts in her angular , diffident directness . 
If I had been late for a love tryst I would have stayed for this , and I quickly signified that I should be delighted to wait upon the old lady . 
She wants to talk with you to know you , Miss Tita said , smiling as if she herself appreciated that idea and she led me to the door of her aunt's apartment . 
I stopped her a moment before she had opened it , looking at her with some curiosity . 
I told her that this was a great satisfaction to me and a great honor but all the same I should like to ask what had made Miss Bordereau change so suddenly . 
It was only the other day that she wouldn't suffer me near her . 
Oh , my aunt changes , she answered it's so terribly dull I suppose she's tired . 
But you told me that she wanted more and more to be alone . 
Poor Miss Tita colored , as if she found me over insistent . 
Well , if you don't believe she wants to see you I haven't invented it ! I think people often are capricious when they are very old . 
I only wanted to be clear as to whether you have repeated to her what I told you the other night . 
What you told me ? About Jeffrey Aspern that I am looking for materials . 
If I had told her do you think she would have sent for you ? That's exactly what I want to know . 
If she wants to keep him to herself she might have sent for me to tell me so . 
She won't speak of him , said Miss Tita . 
Then as she opened the door she added in a lower tone , I have told her nothing . 
The old woman was sitting in the same place in which I had seen her last , in the same position , with the same mystifying bandage over her eyes . 
her welcome was to turn her almost invisible face to me and show me that while she sat silent she saw me clearly . 
I made no motion to shake hands with her I felt too well on this occasion that that was out of place forever . 
It had been sufficiently enjoined upon me that she was too sacred for that sort of reciprocity too venerable to touch . 
She had not betrayed me , but the old woman's brooding instinct had served her she had turned me over and over in the long , still hours , and she had guessed . 
The worst of it was that she looked terribly like an old woman who at a pinch would burn her papers . 
Miss Tita pushed a chair forward , saying to me , This will be a good place for you to sit . 
As I took possession of it I asked after Miss Bordereau's health expressed the hope that in spite of the very hot weather it was satisfactory . 
She replied that it was good enough good enough that it was a great thing to be alive . 
Oh , as to that , it depends upon what you compare it with ! I exclaimed , laughing . 
I don't compare I don't compare . 
If I did that I should have given everything up long ago . 
But one did not ! Miss Tita sat down beside her aunt , looking as if she had reason to believe some very remarkable conversation would come off between us . 
It's about the beautiful flowers , said the old lady you sent us so many I ought to have thanked you for them before . 
But I don't write letters and I receive only at long intervals . 
She had missed it and she was willing to make a concession to bring it back . 
At the first sign of this concession I could only go to meet her . 
I am afraid you have not had many , of late , but they shall begin again immediately tomorrow , tonight . 
Oh , do send us some tonight ! Miss Tita cried , as if it were an immense circumstance . 
What else should you do with them ? It isn't a manly taste to make a bower of your room , the old woman remarked . 
I don't make a bower of my room , but I am exceedingly fond of growing flowers , of watching their ways . 
There is nothing unmanly in that it has been the amusement of philosophers , of statesmen in retirement even I think of great captains . 
I suppose you know you can sell them those you don't use , Miss Bordereau went on . 
I daresay they wouldn't give you much for them still , you could make a bargain . 
Oh , I have never made a bargain , as you ought to know . 
My gardener disposes of them and I ask no questions . 
I would ask a few , I can promise you ! said Miss Bordereau and it was the first time I had heard her laugh . 
I could not get used to the idea that this vision of pecuniary profit was what drew out the divine Juliana most . 
Come into the garden yourself and pick them come as often as you like come every day . 
They are all for you , I pursued , addressing Miss Tita and carrying off this veracious statement by treating it as an innocent joke . 
I can't imagine why she doesn't come down , I added , for Miss Bordereau's benefit . 
You must make her come you must come up and fetch her , said the old woman , to my stupefaction . 
That odd thing you have made in the corner would be a capital place for her to sit . 
I have sat here many a day and I have had enough of arbors in my time . 
But I'm not afraid to wait till I'm called . 
She has a much easier life than I had when I was her age . 
You must remember that it has been quite open to me to think you rather inhuman . 
Inhuman ? That's what the poets used to call the women a hundred years ago . 
Don't try that you won't do as well as they ! Juliana declared . 
There is no more poetry in the world that I know of at least . 
But I won't bandy words with you , she pursued , and I well remember the old fashioned , artificial sound she gave to the speech . 
You have made me talk , talk ! It isn't good for me at all . 
you ought to take the chances that come . 
You're old enough , my dear , and this gentleman won't hurt you . 
He will show you the famous sunsets , if they still go on DO they go on ? The sun set for me so long ago . 
But that's not a reason . 
Besides , I shall never miss you you think you are too important . 
Take her to the Piazza it used to be very pretty , Miss Bordereau continued , addressing herself to me . 
What have they done with the funny old church ? I hope it hasn't tumbled down . 
let her look at the shops she may take some money , she may buy what she likes . 
We would take an hour , whichever she liked , one of the very next days . 
As I made my obeisance to the old lady I asked her if she would kindly permit me to see her again . 
For a moment she said nothing then she inquired , Is it very necessary to your happiness ? It diverts me more than I can say . 
I think it does you good . 
Isn't it touching , the solicitude we each have that the other shall enjoy herself ? sneered Miss Bordereau . 
If you think me brilliant today you don't know what you are talking about you have never seen an agreeable woman . 
Don't try to pay me a compliment I have been spoiled , she went on . 
My door is shut , but you may sometimes knock . 
With this she dismissed me , and I left the room . 
The latch closed behind me , but Miss Tita , contrary to my hope , had remained within . 
I passed slowly across the hall and before taking my way downstairs I waited a little . 
My hope was answered after a minute Miss Tita followed me . 
That's a delightful idea about the Piazza , I said . 
turn away from you and try to escape , but came closer , as it were , with a deprecating , clinging appeal to be spared , to be protected . 
Her attitude was perpetually a sort of prayer for assistance , for explanation and yet no woman in the world could have been less of a comedian . 
She told me she did not know what had got into her aunt she had changed so quickly , she had got some idea . 
Oh , it will take me a long time to find out ! she said , rather ruefully and she could promise me this satisfaction neither for that night nor for the next . 
We swept in the course of five minutes into the Grand Canal whereupon she uttered a murmur of ecstasy as fresh as if she had been a tourist just arrived . 
We floated long and far , and though Miss Tita gave no high pitched voice to her satisfaction I felt that she surrendered herself . 
She was more than pleased , she was transported the whole thing was an immense liberation . 
This was not the only example she gave me of her extreme vagueness about the previous years and the line which marked off the period when Miss Bordereau flourished . 
I was not at liberty to keep her out too long , but we took a considerable GIRL before going to the Piazza . 
That is why she is different now . 
You mean she wants to make me happier ? Well , she wants you not to go she wants you to stay . 
I suppose you mean on account of the rent , I remarked candidly . 
Miss Tita's candor showed itself a match for my own . 
Yes , you know so that I shall have more . 
How much does she want you to have ? I asked , laughing . 
She ought to fix the sum , so that I may stay till it's made up . 
Oh , that wouldn't please me , said Miss Tita . 
It would be unheard of , your taking that trouble . 
But suppose I should have my own reasons for staying in Venice ? Then it would be better for you to stay in some other house . 
And what would your aunt say to that ? She wouldn't like it at all . 
But I should think you would do well to give up your reasons and go away altogether . 
I can't do that without being false to my aunt . 
What do you mean , being false to her ? Why , she would never consent to what you want . 
She has been asked , she has been written to . 
It made her fearfully angry . 
Then she HAS got papers of value ? I demanded quickly . 
Oh , she has got everything ! sighed Miss Tita with a curious weariness , a sudden lapse into gloom . 
These words caused all my pulses to throb , for I regarded them as precious evidence . 
For some minutes I was too agitated to speak , and in the interval the gondola approached the Piazzetta . 
I assured her there was plenty to do both , and we made the circuit of the long arcades . 
My attention wandered from her her words of a while before , Oh , she has got everything ! echoed so in my consciousness . 
We sat down at last in the crowded circle at Florian's , finding an unoccupied table among those that were ranged in the square . 
It was a splendid night and all the world was out of doors Miss Tita could not have wished the elements more auspicuous for her return to society . 
I saw that she enjoyed it even more than she told she was agitated with the multitude of her impressions . 
She had forgotten what an attractive thing the world is , and it was coming over her that somehow she had for the best years of her life been cheated of it . 
She wants you so much to stay that she is willing to make that concession . 
And what good does she consider that I think it will do me to see her ? I don't know she thinks it's interesting , said Miss Tita simply . 
You told her you found it so . 
So I did but everyone doesn't think so . 
No , of course not , or more people would try . 
But she has not been made so by indiscreet curiosity , by persecution ? No , no it isn't that , said Miss Tita , turning on me a somewhat troubled face . 
I don't know how to say it it's on account of something ages ago , before I was born in her life . 
Something ? What sort of thing ? I asked as if I myself could have no idea . 
Oh , she has never told me , Miss Tita answered and I was sure she was speaking the truth . 
Her extreme limpidity was almost provoking , and I felt for the moment that she would have been more satisfactory if she had been less ingenuous . 
I have never looked at any of those things . 
None of them ? Then how do you know what they are ? I don't , said Miss Tita placidly . 
I have never had them in my hands . 
But I have seen them when she has had them out . 
Does she have them out often ? Not now , but she used to . 
She is very fond of them . 
In spite of their being compromising ? Compromising ? Miss Tita repeated as if she was ignorant of the meaning of the word . 
I felt almost as one who corrupts the innocence of youth . 
I mean their containing painful memories . 
Oh , I don't think they are painful . 
I don't think she really measured it . 
Do you mean that she did something bad ? she asked in a moment . 
Heaven forbid I should say so , and it's none of my business . 
Besides , if she did , I added , laughing , it was in other ages , in another world . 
But why should she not destroy her papers ? Oh , she loves them too much . 
Even now , when she may be near her end ? Perhaps when she's sure of that she will . 
Well , Miss Tita , I said , it's just what I should like you to prevent . 
Oh , I mean that you might let me see them and look them over . 
It isn't for myself there is no personal avidity in my desire . 
It is simply that they would be of such immense interest to the public , such immeasurable importance as a contribution to Jeffrey Aspern's history . 
This was especially the case when after a moment she said . 
There was a gentleman who some time ago wrote to her in very much those words . 
He also wanted her papers . 
And did she answer him ? I asked , rather ashamed of myself for not having her rectitude . 
Only when he had written two or three times . 
He made her very angry . 
And what did she say ? She said he was a devil , Miss Tita replied simply . 
She used that expression in her letter ? Oh , no she said it to me . 
She made me write to him . 
And what did you say ? I told him there were no papers at all . 
Ah , poor gentleman ! I exclaimed . 
I knew there were , but I wrote what she bade me . 
Of course you had to do that . 
But I hope I shall not pass for a devil . 
It will depend upon what you ask me to do for you , said Miss Tita , smiling . 
But the principal thing is this to prevent her from destroying the papers . 
Why , I have no control of her , said Miss Tita . 
It's she who controls me . 
But she doesn't control her own arms and legs , does she ? The way she would naturally destroy her letters would be to burn them . 
Now she can't burn them without fire , and she can't get fire unless you give it to her . 
I have always done everything she has asked , my companion rejoined . 
I was on the point of saying that Olimpia was probably corruptible , but I thought it best not to sound that note . 
So I simply inquired if that faithful domestic could not be managed . 
Everyone can be managed by my aunt , said Miss Tita . 
And then she observed that her holiday was over she must go home . 
I laid my hand on her arm , across the table , to stay her a moment . 
What I want of you is a general promise to help me . 
Oh , how can I how can I ? she asked , wondering and troubled . 
She was half surprised , half frightened at my wishing to make her play an active part . 
This is the main thing to watch her carefully and warn me in time , before she commits that horrible sacrilege . 
I can't watch her when she makes me go out . 
And when you do , too . 
Mercy on us do you think she will have done anything tonight ? I don't know she is very cunning . 
Are you trying to frighten me ? I asked . 
By will ? Hasn't she made a will for your benefit ? Why , she has so little to leave . 
That's why she likes money , said Miss Tita . 
Might I ask , since we are really talking things over , what you and she live on ? On some money that comes from America , from a lawyer . 
He sends it every quarter . 
It isn't much ! And won't she have disposed of that ? My companion hesitated I saw she was blushing . 
I believe it's mine , she said and the look and tone which accompanied these words betrayed so the absence of the habit of thinking of herself that I almost thought her charming . 
The next instant she added , But she had a lawyer once , ever so long ago . 
And some people came and signed something . 
Oh , of course you will have to abide by the terms , I said and she uttered nothing to mitigate the severity of this conclusion . 
VII The fear of what this side of her character might have led her to do made me nervous for days afterward . 
But as she gave no sign I lost patience and determined to judge so far as was possible with my own senses . 
I sent late one afternoon to ask if I might pay the ladies a visit , and my servant came back with surprising news . 
Miss Bordereau could be approached without the least difficulty she had been moved out into the sala and was sitting by the window that overlooked the garden . 
It was I who had kindled the unholy flame it was I who had put into her head that she had the means of making money . 
Like all persons who achieve the miracle of changing their point of view when they are old she had been intensely converted she had seized my hint with a desperate , tremulous clutch . 
How can I take palaces by the year ? My existence is precarious . 
I don't know whether six months hence I shall have bread to put in my mouth . 
I have treated myself for once it has been an immense luxury . 
But when it comes to going on ! Are your rooms too dear ? If they are you can have more for the same money , Juliana responded . 
We can arrange , we can combinare , as they say here . 
Well yes , since you ask me , they are too dear , I said . 
Evidently you suppose me richer than I am . 
She looked at me in her barricaded way . 
If you write books don't you sell them ? Do you mean don't people buy them ? A little not so much as I could wish . 
Writing books , unless one be a great genius and even then ! is the last road to fortune . 
I think there is no more money to be made by literature . 
Perhaps you don't choose good subjects . 
What do you write about ? Miss Bordereau inquired . 
About the books of other people . 
I'm a critic , an historian , in a small way . 
I wondered what she was coming to . 
And what do you say about them ? I say they sometimes attached themselves to very clever women ! I answered , laughing . 
I spoke with great deliberation , but as my words fell upon the air they struck me as imprudent . 
However , I risked them and I was not sorry , for perhaps after all the old woman would be willing to treat . 
Oh , I like the past , but I don't like critics , the old woman declared with her fine tranquility . 
Neither do I , but I like their discoveries . 
Aren't they mostly lies ? The lies are what they sometimes discover , I said , smiling at the quiet impertinence of this . 
They often lay bare the truth . 
The truth is God's , it isn't man's we had better leave it alone . 
You talk as if you were a tailor , said Miss Bordereau whimsically and then she added quickly , in a different manner , This house is very fine the proportions are magnificent . 
Today I wanted to look at this place again . 
I made them bring me out here . 
I wanted to judge what I'm letting you have . 
This sala is very grand , she pursued , like an auctioneer , moving a little , as I guessed , her invisible eyes . 
I don't believe you often have lived in such a house , eh ? I can't often afford to ! I said . 
So I thought I should . 
For a moment she said nothing more , and I left my own words to suggest to her what they might . 
what would have told her that my disappointment was natural . 
But to my extreme surprise she ended by observing If you don't think we have treated you well enough perhaps we can discover some way of treating you better . 
I assented cordially to this proposition , and she expressed the hope that I did so not merely to be obliging , but that I really liked her . 
Meanwhile I wondered still more what Miss Bordereau was coming to . 
Except for me , today , she said , she has not a relation in the world . 
My patience and my time were by no means exhausted , but I should be able to draw upon them only on a more usual Venetian basis . 
Oh , I must think of that then . 
, from the last violence of self exposure . 
She was such a subtle old witch that one could never tell where one stood with her . 
What would an amateur give me for that ? She unfolded the white paper and made a motion for me to take from her a small oval portrait . 
At the first glance I recognized Jeffrey Aspern , and I was well aware that I flushed with the act . 
As she was watching me however I had the consistency to exclaim , What a striking face ! Do tell me who it is . 
It's an old friend of mine , a very distinguished man in his day . 
He gave it to me himself , but I'm afraid to mention his name , lest you never should have heard of him , critic and historian as you are . 
I know the world goes fast and one generation forgets another . 
He was all the fashion when I was young . 
What she wished was to dangle it before my eyes and put a prohibitive price on it . 
The face comes back to me , it torments me , I said , turning the object this way and that and looking at it very critically . 
I judged the picture to have a valuable quality of resemblance and to have been painted when the model was about twenty five years old . 
There are , as all the world knows , three other portraits of the poet in existence , but none of them is of so early a date as this elegant production . 
I have never seen the original but I have seen other likenesses , I went on . 
You expressed doubt of this generation having heard of the gentleman , but he strikes me for all the world as a celebrity . 
Now who is he ? I can't put my finger on him I can't give him a label . 
Wasn't he a writer ? Surely he's a poet . 
I was determined that it should be she , not I , who should first pronounce Jeffrey Aspern's name . 
My resolution was taken in ignorance of Miss Bordereau's extremely resolute character , and her lips never formed in my hearing the syllables that meant so much for her . 
She neglected to answer my question but raised her hand to take back the picture , with a gesture which though ineffectual was in a high degree peremptory . 
It's only a person who should know for himself that would give me my price , she said with a certain dryness . 
Oh , then , you have a price ? I did not restore the precious thing not from any vindictive purpose but because I instinctively clung to it . 
We looked at each other hard while I retained it . 
I know the least I would take . 
What it occurred to me to ask you about is the most I shall be able to get . 
I instantly placed it in her hand again , saying as I did so , I should like to have it myself , but with your ideas I could never afford it . 
It's lucky you thought of saying that , because the painter was my father . 
Aspern had of course met the young lady when he went to her father's studio as a sitter . 
Well , at any rate I hope you will not offer it without giving me notice , I said as she remained irresponsive . 
Remember that I am a possible purchaser . 
You speak as if we had set up the habit , I replied . 
Certainly I should be very glad if it were to become a habit . 
But in that case I should feel a still greater scruple at betraying a lady's confidence . 
Her confidence ? Has she got confidence ? Here she is she can tell you herself , I said for Miss Tita now appeared on the threshold of the old woman's parlor . 
Have you got confidence , Miss Tita ? Your aunt wants very much to know . 
Not in her , not in her ! the younger lady declared , shaking her head with a dolefulness that was neither jocular not affected . 
I don't know what to do with her she has fits of horrid imprudence . 
She is so easily tired and yet she has begun to roam to drag herself about the house . 
I know what I'm about . 
I'm not losing my mind . 
I daresay you would like to think so , said Miss Bordereau with a cynical little sigh . 
I don't suppose you came out here yourself . 
Miss Tita must have had to lend you a hand , I interposed with a pacifying intention . 
I suppose you mean that they have obeyed you . 
Well , whatever it is , when they like you . 
It's just because I like you that I want to resist , said Miss Tita with a nervous laugh . 
Nonsense , my dear I feel better at this moment than I have done for a month . 
Tomorrow I shall come out again . 
I want to be where I can see this clever gentleman . 
Shouldn't you perhaps see me better in your sitting room ? I inquired . 
Don't you mean shouldn't you have a better chance at me ? she returned , fixing me a moment with her green shade . 
Ah , I haven't that anywhere ! I look at you but I don't see you . 
You excite her dreadfully and that is not good , said Miss Tita , giving me a reproachful , appealing look . 
I want to watch you I want to watch you ! the old lady went on . 
Well then , let us spend as much of our time together as possible I don't care where and that will give you every facility . 
Oh , I've seen you enough for today . 
Miss Tita laid her hands on the back of her aunt's chair and began to push , but I begged her to let me take her place . 
Oh , yes , you may move me this way you shan't in any other ! Miss Bordereau exclaimed as she felt herself propelled firmly and easily over the smooth , hard floor . 
Before we reached the door of her own apartment she commanded me to stop , and she took a long , last look up and down the noble sala . 
Oh , it's a magnificent house ! she murmured after which I pushed her forward . 
Miss Tita's idea was evidently to get her aunt immediately back to bed . 
The place had indeed a bareness which did not suggest hidden treasures there were no dusky nooks nor curtained corners , no massive cabinets nor chests with iron bands . 
Her doing this made me think I was right and that wherever they might have been before the Aspern papers at that moment languished behind the peevish little lock of the secretary . 
To make the effort graceful I said to her that I should certainly bring her an opinion about the little picture . 
The little picture ? Miss Tita asked , surprised . 
What do YOU know about it , my dear ? the old woman demanded . 
I have fixed my price . 
And what may that be ? A thousand pounds . 
Oh Lord ! cried poor Miss Tita irrepressibly . 
Is that what she talks to you about ? said Miss Bordereau . 
I remember well that I felt no surprise at seeing her which is not a proof that I did not believe in her timidity . 
It was immense , but in a case in which there was a particular reason for boldness it never would have prevented her from running up to my rooms . 
I saw that she was now quite full of a particular reason it threw her forward made her seize me , as I rose to meet her , by the arm . 
My aunt is very ill I think she is dying ! Never in the world , I answered bitterly . 
I told her that if he was not at home she was to follow him where he had gone but apparently she is following him all over Venice . 
I don't know what to do she looks so as if she were sinking . 
May I see her , may I judge ? I asked . 
This had subsided but had left her so exhausted that she did not come up she seemed all gone . 
Miss Tita wanted to know what I had done to her her aunt had told her that I had made her so angry . 
I said that I would give anything to possess it , yet that I had not a thousand pounds but I stopped when we came to the door of Miss Bordereau's room . 
The sight of you ? Do you think she can SEE ? my companion demanded almost with indignation . 
I did think so but forebore to say it , and I softly followed my conductress . 
Miss Tita gave me a glance of surprise , evidently not seeing a reason for my impatience . 
You mean that she always wears something ? She does it to preserve them . 
Because they are so fine ? Oh , today , today ! And Miss Tita shook her head , speaking very low . 
But they used to be magnificent ! Yes indeed , we have Aspern's word for that . 
And as I looked again at the old woman's wrappings I could imagine that she had not wished to allow people a reason to say that the great poet had overdone it . 
But I did not waste my time in considering Miss Bordereau , in whom the appearance of respiration was so slight as to suggest that no human attention could ever help her more . 
I turned my eyes all over the room , rummaging with them the closets , the chests of drawers , the tables . 
The room was a dire confusion it looked like the room of an old actress . 
, said , perhaps to defend herself from the imputation of complicity in such untidiness She likes it this way we can't move things . 
There are old bandboxes she has had most of her life . 
Then she added , half taking pity on my real thought , Those things were THERE . 
And she pointed to a small , low trunk which stood under a sofa where there was just room for it . 
It appeared to be a queer , superannuated coffer , of painted wood , with elaborate handles and shriveled straps and with the color much rubbed off . 
It evidently had traveled with Juliana in the olden time in the days of her adventures , which it had shared . 
It would have made a strange figure arriving at a modern hotel . 
WERE there they aren't now ? I asked , startled by Miss Tita's implication . 
She was going to answer , but at that moment the doctor came in the doctor whom the little maid had been sent to fetch and whom she had at last overtaken . 
He was a short , fat , brisk gentleman who wore the tall hat of his profession and seemed to look at everything but his patient . 
I was nervous I could not go further I could not leave the place . 
I don't know exactly what I thought might happen , but it seemed to me important to be there . 
I wandered about in the alleys the warm night had come on smoking cigar after cigar and looking at the light in Miss Bordereau's windows . 
They were open now , I could see the situation was different . 
Sometimes the light moved , but not quickly it did not suggest the hurry of a crisis . 
I bit my cigar hard as it came over me again that perhaps there were now no papers to carry ! I wandered about for an hour for an hour and a half . 
I looked out for Miss Tita at one of the windows , having a vague idea that she might come there to give me some sign . 
My servant came down and spoke to me he knew nothing save that the doctor had gone after a visit of half an hour . 
If he had stayed half an hour then Miss Bordereau was still alive it could not have taken so much time as that to enunciate the contrary . 
I sent the man out of the house there were moments when the sense of his curiosity annoyed me , and this was one of them . 
I went upstairs at last but I ascended no higher than the sala . 
The door of Miss Bordereau's apartment was open , showing from the parlor the dimness of a poor candle . 
I went toward it with a light tread , and at the same moment Miss Tita appeared and stood looking at me as I approached . 
She's better she's better , she said , even before I had asked . 
The doctor has given her something she woke up , came back to life while he was there . 
He says there is no immediate danger . 
No immediate danger ? Surely he thinks her condition strange ! Yes , because she had been excited . 
It will do so again then , because she excites herself . 
She did so this afternoon . 
Yes she mustn't come out any more , said Miss Tita , with one of her lapses into a deeper placidity . 
You must learn to resist her , I went on . 
Oh , yes , I shall I shall do so better if you tell me it's right . 
You mustn't do it for me you must do it for yourself . 
It all comes back to you , if you are frightened . 
Well , I am not frightened now , said Miss Tita cheerfully . 
Is she conscious again does she speak ? No , she doesn't speak , but she takes my hand . 
'Yes , I rejoined , I can see what force she still has by the way she grabbed that picture this afternoon . 
, I thought I saw her smile ingenuously . 
I came on purpose I heard your step . 
Why , I came on tiptoe , as inaudibly as possible . 
Well , I heard you , said Miss Tita . 
And is your aunt alone now ? Oh , no Olimpia is sitting there . 
On my side I hesitated . 
Shall we then step in there ? And I nodded at the parlor I wanted more and more to be on the spot . 
We can't talk there she will hear us . 
So I proposed that we should walk a little in the sala , keeping more at the other end , where we should not disturb the old lady . 
Miss Tita assented unconditionally the doctor was coming again , she said , and she would be there to meet him at the door . 
We strolled through the fine superfluous hall , where on the marble floor particularly as at first we said nothing our footsteps were more audible than I had expected . 
I opened the window and we passed out on the balcony . 
The air of the canal seemed even heavier , hotter than that of the sala . 
The place was hushed and void the quiet neighborhood had gone to sleep . 
This did not prevent the scene from being very comme il faut , as Miss Bordereau had called it the first time I saw her . 
Presently a gondola passed along the canal with its slow rhythmical plash , and as we listened we watched it in silence . 
You said her papers had been there you seemed to imply that she had transferred them . 
Oh , yes they are not in the trunk , said Miss Tita . 
May I ask if you have looked ? Yes , I have looked for you . 
How for me , dear Miss Tita ? Do you mean you would have given them to me if you had found them ? I asked , almost trembling . 
She delayed to reply and I waited . 
No , it isn't decent , I replied gravely . 
Let the poor lady rest in peace . 
And the words , on my lips , were not hypocritical , for I felt reprimanded and shamed . 
I can't deceive her perhaps on her deathbed . 
Heaven forbid I should ask you , though I have been guilty myself ! You have been guilty ? I have sailed under false colors . 
I explained this and also that I had really been a party to the letter written to them by John Cumnor months before . 
So do I , I said , laughing . 
Ouf ! it's a relief to get rid of the other . 
So it was a regular plot a kind of conspiracy ? Oh , a conspiracy we were only two , I replied , leaving out Mrs. Prest of course . 
She hesitated I thought she was perhaps going to say that we had been very base . 
But she remarked after a moment , in a candid , wondering way , How much you must want them ! Oh , I do , passionately ! I conceded , smiling . 
And this chance made me go on , forgetting my compunction of a moment before . 
It was as if she were a little shy , a little ashamed now of letting me see how much she had entered into my uneasiness and had me on her mind . 
Suddenly she said to me , without any immediate relevance I feel as if you were a new person , now that you have got a new name . 
It isn't a new one it is a very good old one , thank heaven ! She looked at me a moment . 
I do like it better . 
You must wait you must wait , Miss Tita moralized mournfully and her tone ministered little to my patience , for it seemed after all to accept that wretched possibility . 
Of course if the papers are gone that's no use , she said not as if she wished to recede , but only to be conscientious . 
But if you could only find out ! I groaned , quivering again . 
I thought you said you would wait . 
I know not whether she guessed this at all events she appeared to become aware of the necessity for being a little more rigid . 
I didn't promise to deceive , did I ? I don't think I did . 
I noted that he came as fast as if he believed that Miss Bordereau was still in danger . 
We looked down at him while he disembarked and then went back into the sala to meet him . 
When he came up however I naturally left Miss Tita to go off with him alone , only asking her leave to come back later for news . 
I went out of the house and took a long walk , as far as the Piazza , where my restlessness declined to quit me . 
I could only walk round and round , and I did so half a dozen times . 
I was uncomfortable , but it gave me a certain pleasure to have told Miss Tita who I really was . 
The sala , upstairs , was as dark as usual and my lamp as I crossed it found nothing satisfactory to show me . 
I was disappointed , for I had notified Miss Tita that I would come back for a report , and I thought she might have left a light there as a sign . 
The door of the ladies' apartment was closed which seemed an intimation that my faltering friend had gone to bed , tired of waiting for me . 
I went nearer the door I stopped there and listened . 
I heard nothing at all and at last I tapped gently . 
No answer came and after another minute I turned the handle . 
There was no light in the room this ought to have prevented me from going in , but it had no such effect . 
I think it was the worst thing I did yet there were extenuating circumstances . 
It may be said that her leaving the place dark was a positive sign that she released me , and to this I can only reply that I desired not to be released . 
The door of Miss Bordereau's room was open and I could see beyond it the faintness of a taper . 
There was no sound my footstep caused no one to stir . 
I came further into the room I lingered there with my lamp in my hand . 
I wanted to give Miss Tita a chance to come to me if she were with her aunt , as she must be . 
I made no noise to call her I only waited to see if she would not notice my light . 
She did not , and I explained this by the idea that she had fallen asleep . 
If she had fallen asleep her aunt was not on her mind , and my explanation ought to have led me to go out as I had come . 
I must repeat again that it did not , for I found myself at the same moment thinking of something else . 
I had no definite purpose , no bad intention , but I felt myself held to the spot by an acute , though absurd , sense of opportunity . 
For what I could not have said , inasmuch as it was not in my mind that I might commit a theft . 
Even if it had been I was confronted with the evident fact that Miss Bordereau did not leave her secretary , her cupboard , and the drawers of her tables gaping . 
I had no keys , no tools , and no ambition to smash her furniture . 
Nonetheless it came to me that I was now , perhaps alone , unmolested , at the hour of temptation and secrecy , nearer to the tormenting treasure than I had ever been . 
I held up my lamp , let the light play on the different objects as if it could tell me something . 
Still there came no movement from the other room . 
If Miss Tita was sleeping she was sleeping sound . 
The secretary was more conspicuous , more accessible in a room in which she could no longer mount guard . 
It opened with a key , but there was a little brass handle , like a button , as well I saw this as I played my lamp over it . 
I did something more than this at that moment I caught a glimpse of the possibility that Miss Tita wished me really to understand . 
She had not left the key , but the lid would probably move if I touched the button . 
This theory fascinated me , and I bent over very close to judge . 
, I looked over my shoulder . 
It was a chance , an instinct , for I had not heard anything . 
I almost let my luminary drop and certainly I stepped back , straightening myself up at what I saw . 
They glared at me , they made me horribly ashamed . 
In this note I mentioned that I should be absent but for a few days . 
In spite of these pastimes , which were mechanical and perfunctory , I scantily enjoyed my journey there was too strong a taste of the disagreeable in my life . 
In writing to Miss Tita I attempted to minimize these irregularities but as she gave me no word of answer I could not know what impression I made upon her . 
It rankled in my mind that I had been called a publishing scoundrel , for certainly I did publish and certainly I had not been very delicate . 
that in disappearing completely it would not be merely my own hopes that I should condemn to extinction . 
It would perhaps be sufficient if I stayed away long enough to give the elder lady time to think she was rid of me . 
was now not to be doubted that nocturnal scene would have cured her of the disposition to put up with my company for the sake of my dollars . 
that she would let me know how she was getting on . 
I would have made my servant write to me but that he was unable to manage a pen . 
, so that I was uncomfortable and sore . 
I had scruples about going back and yet I had others about not doing so , for I wanted to put myself on a better footing . 
I had faced about so abruptly that I had not telegraphed to my servant . 
He was therefore not at the station to meet me , but he poked out his head from an upper window when I reached the house . 
She's dead ! I exclaimed , giving him a very different look . 
So it appears , since they have buried her . 
It's all over ? When was the funeral ? The other yesterday . 
But a funeral you could scarcely call it , signore it was a dull little passeggio of two gondolas . 
Poveretta ! the man continued , referring apparently to Miss Tita . 
His conception of funerals was apparently that they were mainly to amuse the living . 
I wanted to know about Miss Tita how she was and where she was but I asked him no more questions till we had got upstairs . 
Now that the fact had met me I took a bad view of it , especially of the idea that poor Miss Tita had had to manage by herself after the end . 
during the journey to the cemetery , the little red walled island of tombs which lies to the north of the town , on the way to Murano . 
Certainly even the priests respected their seclusion I had never caught the whisk of the curato's skirt . 
That evening , an hour later , I sent my servant down with five words written on a card , to ask Miss Tita if she would see me for a few moments . 
She was not in the house , where he had sought her , he told me when he came back , but in the garden walking about to refresh herself and gathering flowers . 
He had found her there and she would be very happy to see me . 
I went down and passed half an hour with poor Miss Tita . 
, and in this respect there was no appreciable change in her appearance . 
But she evidently had been crying , crying a great deal simply , satisfyingly , refreshingly , with a sort of primitive , retarded sense of loneliness and violence . 
Her white face , in the frame of her mantilla , looked longer , leaner than usual . 
That touched him extremely , and he thought it simplified his situation until he found it did not . 
I was as kind to her that evening as I knew how to be , and I walked about the garden with her for half an hour . 
There was no explanation of any sort between us I did not ask her why she had not answered my letter . 
I forebore to touch particularly on that , however , for I certainly was not prepared to say that I would take charge of her . 
and when we had gone into this she asked me about my giro , my impressions , the places I had seen . 
I said never a word to her about the Aspern documents asked no questions as to what she had ascertained or what had otherwise happened with regard to them before Miss Bordereau's death . 
It was not that I was not on pins and needles to know , but that I thought it more decent not to betray my anxiety so soon after the catastrophe . 
I hoped she herself would say something , but she never glanced that way , and I thought this natural at the time . 
I was on rather a different footing in regard to visiting her there . 
As I shook hands with her for goodnight I asked her if she had any general plan had thought over what she had better do . 
Oh , yes , oh , yes , but I haven't settled anything yet , she replied quite cheerfully . 
There was a very practical question to be touched upon . 
But I was not destined , as it happened , to converse with her for more than an instant on either of these points . 
I sent her no message I simply went down to the sala and walked to and fro there . 
I knew she would come out she would very soon discover I was there . 
Somehow I preferred not to be shut up with her gardens and big halls seemed better places to talk . 
It was the beginning of autumn , of the end of the golden months . 
I could not linger there to act as guardian to a piece of middle aged female helplessness . 
If the old woman had not destroyed everything before she pounced upon me in the parlor she had done so afterward . 
It took Miss Tita rather longer than I had expected to guess that I was there but when at last she came out she looked at me without surprise . 
I said to her that I had been waiting for her , and she asked why I had not let her know . 
What I did say was virtually the truth that I was too nervous , since I expected her now to settle my fate . 
Your fate ? said Miss Tita , giving me a queer look and as she spoke I noticed a rare change in her . 
She was different from what she had been the evening before less natural , less quiet . 
She had been crying the day before and she was not crying now , and yet she struck me as less confident . 
Had she simply perceived that her aunt's not being there now altered my position ? I mean about our papers . 
ARE there any ? You must know now . 
Yes , there are a great many more than I supposed . 
I was struck with the way her voice trembled as she told me this . 
I have got them but I can't show them , she added . 
Not even to me ? Ah , Miss Tita ! I groaned , with a voice of infinite remonstrance and reproach . 
It made me quite sick to find myself confronted with that particular obstacle all the more that it appeared to me I had been extremely encouraged to leave it out of account . 
Oh , I would rather she had burned the papers outright than that ! No , it isn't a promise , said Miss Tita . 
Pray what is it then ? She hesitated and then she said , She tried to burn them , but I prevented it . 
She had hid them in her bed . 
In her bed ? Between the mattresses . 
That's where she put them when she took them out of the trunk . 
I can't understand how she did it , because Olimpia didn't help her . 
She tells me so , and I believe her . 
My aunt only told her afterward , so that she shouldn't touch the bed anything but the sheets . 
So it was badly made , added Miss Tita simply . 
I should think so ! And how did she try to burn them ? She didn't try much she was too weak , those last days . 
But she told me she charged me . 
Oh , it was terrible ! She couldn't speak after that night she could only make signs . 
And what did you do ? I took them away . 
In the secretary ? Yes , in the secretary , said Miss Tita , reddening again . 
Did you tell her you would burn them ? No , I didn't on purpose . 
On purpose to gratify me ? Yes , only for that . 
And what good will you have done me if after all you won't show them ? Oh , none I know that I know that . 
And did she believe you had destroyed them ? I don't know what she believed at the last . 
I couldn't tell she was too far gone . 
Then if there was no promise and no assurance I can't see what ties you . 
Oh , she hated it so she hated it so ! She was so jealous . 
I may have it do you mean you give it to me ? I questioned , staring , as it passed into my hand . 
But it's worth money a large sum . 
Well ! said Miss Tita , still with her strange look . 
I did not know what to make of it , for it could scarcely mean that she wanted to bargain like her aunt . 
She spoke as if she wished to make me a present . 
I can't take it from you as a gift , I said , and yet I can't afford to pay you for it according to the ideas Miss Bordereau had of its value . 
She rated it at a thousand pounds . 
Couldn't we sell it ? asked Miss Tita . 
God forbid ! I prefer the picture to the money . 
Well , you have made a great difference for me , said Miss Tita . 
I asked him what on earth was the matter with Miss Tita . 
He seemed to smile at me with friendly mockery , as if he were amused at my case . 
I had got into a pickle for him as if he needed it ! He was unsatisfactory , for the only moment since I had known him . 
Nevertheless , now that I held the little picture in my hand I felt that it would be a precious possession . 
Is this a bribe to make me give up the papers ? I demanded in a moment , perversely . 
Much as I value it , if I were to be obliged to choose , the papers are what I should prefer . 
Ah , but ever so much ! How can you choose how can you choose ? Miss Tita asked , slowly , lamentably . 
I see ! Of course there is nothing to be said , if you regard the interdiction that rests upon you as quite insurmountable . 
You would understand if you had known her . 
I'm afraid , she quavered suddenly I'm afraid ! She was terrible when she was angry . 
Yes , I saw something of that , that night . 
Then I saw her eyes . 
Lord , they were fine ! I see them they stare at me in the dark ! said Miss Tita . 
You are nervous , with all you have been through . 
Oh , yes , very very ! You mustn't mind that will pass away , I said , kindly . 
Then I added , resignedly , for it really seemed to me that I must accept the situation , Well , so it is , and it can't be helped . 
And I can't understand why , with her ideas , she didn't . 
Oh , she lived on them ! said Miss Tita . 
You can imagine whether that makes me want less to see them , I answered , smiling . 
But don't let me stand here as if I had it in my soul to tempt you to do anything base . 
Naturally you will understand if I give up my rooms . 
And I took up my hat , which I had placed on a chair . 
We were still there rather awkwardly , on our feet , in the middle of the sala . 
She had left the door of the apartments open behind her but she had not led me that way . 
A kind of spasm came into her face as she saw me take my hat . 
Immediately do you mean today ? The tone of the words was tragical they were a cry of desolation . 
Oh , no not so long as I can be of the least service to you . 
Well , just a day or two more just two or three days , she panted . 
Then controlling herself , she added in another manner , She wanted to say something to me the last day something very particular , but she couldn't . 
Something very particular ? Something more about the papers . 
And did you guess have you any idea ? No , I have thought but I don't know . 
I have thought all kinds of things . 
And for instance ? Well , that if you were a relation it would be different . 
If I were a relation ? If you were not a stranger . 
Then it would be the same for you as for me . 
Anything that is mine would be yours , and you could do what you like . 
I couldn't prevent you and you would have no responsibility . 
She brought out this droll explanation with a little nervous rush , as if she were speaking words she had got by heart . 
They gave me an impression of subtlety and at first I failed to follow . 
But after a moment her face helped me to see further , and then a light came into my mind . 
It was embarrassing , and I bent my head over Jeffrey Aspern's portrait . 
I shan't get a thousand pounds by any means , but I shall get something good . 
She looked at me with tears in her eyes , but she seemed to try to smile as she remarked , We can divide the money . 
No , no , it shall be all yours . 
Then I went on , I think I know what your poor aunt wanted to say . 
She wanted to give directions that her papers should be buried with her . 
She had an idea that when people want to publish they are capable And she paused , blushing . 
Of violating a tomb ? Mercy on us , what must she have thought of me ! She was not just , she was not generous ! Miss Tita cried with sudden passion . 
The light that had come into my mind a moment before increased . 
Ah , don't say that , for we ARE a dreadful race . 
Then I pursued , If she left a will , that may give you some idea . 
I have found nothing of the sort she destroyed it . 
She was very fond of me , Miss Tita added incongruously . 
She wanted me to be happy . 
And if any person should be kind to me she wanted to speak of that . 
I was almost awestricken at the astuteness with which the good lady found herself inspired , transparent astuteness as it was and sewn , as the phrase is , with white thread . 
Depend upon it she didn't want to make any provision that would be agreeable to me . 
No , not to you but to me . 
She knew I should like it if you could carry out your idea . 
Not because she cared for you but because she did think of me , Miss Tita went on with her unexpected , persuasive volubility . 
You could see them you could use them . 
She stopped , seeing that I perceived the sense of that conditional stopped long enough for me to give some sign which I did not give . 
It was a comfort to me a long time afterward to consider that she could not have seen in me the smallest symptom of disrespect . 
I don't know what to do I'm too tormented , I'm too ashamed ! she continued with vehemence . 
Then turning away from me and burying her face in her hands she burst into a flood of tears . 
If she did not know what to do it may be imagined whether I did any better . 
I stood there dumb , watching her while her sobs resounded in the great empty hall . 
In a moment she was facing me again , with her streaming eyes . 
I would give you everything and she would understand , where she is she would forgive me ! Ah , Miss Tita ah , Miss Tita , I stammered , for all reply . 
I did not know what to do , as I say , but at a venture I made a wild , vague movement in consequence of which I found myself at the door . 
The next thing I remember is that I was downstairs and out of the house . 
My gondola was there and my gondolier , reclining on the cushions , sprang up as soon as he saw me . 
I don't know where my gondolier took me we floated aimlessly about in the lagoon , with slow , rare strokes . 
I wanted to walk , to move , to shed some of my bewilderment . 
I crossed the narrow strip and got to the sea beach I took my way toward Malamocco . 
But presently I flung myself down again on the warm sand , in the breeze , on the coarse dry grass . 
It took it out of me to think I had been so much at fault , that I had unwittingly but nonetheless deplorably trifled . 
But I had not given her cause distinctly I had not . 
I had said to Mrs. Prest that I would make love to her but it had been a joke without consequences and I had never said it to Tita Bordereau . 
I did not laugh all day that I do recollect the case , however it might have struck others , seemed to me so little amusing . 
It would have been better perhaps for me to feel the comic side of it . 
At any rate , whether I had given cause or not it went without saying that I could not pay the price . 
I could not , for a bundle of tattered papers , marry a ridiculous , pathetic , provincial old woman . 
We had more than enough material without them , and my predicament was the just punishment of that most fatal of human follies , our not having known when to stop . 
Of course I might go away without writing a word , but that would be brutal and my idea was still to exclude brutal solutions . 
I forget what I did , where I went after leaving the Lido and at what hour or with what recovery of composure I made my way back to my boat . 
The western light shines into all his grimness at that hour and makes it wonderfully personal . 
He could not direct me what to do , gaze up at him as I might . 
It was an effect of poor Miss Tita's proposal , not altogether auspicious , that I had quite lost my appetite . 
And somehow the splendid common domicile , familiar , domestic , and resonant , also resembles a theater , with actors clicking over bridges and , in straggling processions , tripping along fondamentas . 
I went to bed that night very tired , without being able to compose a letter to Miss Tita . 
They were now more precious than ever , and a kind of ferocity had come into my desire to possess them . 
I would not unite myself and yet I would have them . 
She certainly would have made the day before the reflection that I declined it . 
As soon as I came into the room I saw that she had drawn this inference , but I also saw something which had not been in my forecast . 
Poor Miss Tita's sense of her failure had produced an extraordinary alteration in her , but I had been too full of my literary concupiscence to think of that . 
Now I perceived it I can scarcely tell how it startled me . 
She stood in the middle of the room with a face of mildness bent upon me , and her look of forgiveness , of absolution , made her angelic . 
It beautified her she was younger she was not a ridiculous old woman . 
Still more distinctly however than the whisper I heard Miss Tita's own voice . 
Goodbye goodbye ? I repeated with an inflection interrogative and probably foolish . 
I saw she did not feel the interrogation , she only heard the words she had strung herself up to accepting our separation and they fell upon her ear as a proof . 
Are you going today ? she asked . 
But it doesn't matter , for whenever you go I shall not see you again . 
And she smiled strangely , with an infinite gentleness . 
She had never doubted that I had left her the day before in horror . 
What shall you do where shall you go ? I asked . 
Oh , I don't know . 
I have done the great thing . 
I have destroyed the papers . 
Destroyed them ? I faltered . 
Yes what was I to keep them for ? I burned them last night , one by one , in the kitchen . 
One by one ? I repeated , mechanically . 
It took a long time there were so many . 
The room seemed to go round me as she said this , and a real darkness for a moment descended upon my eyes . 
When it passed Miss Tita was there still , but the transfiguration was over and she had changed back to a plain , dingy , elderly person . 
Here she did what I had not done when I quitted her she paused long enough to give me one look . 
I have never forgotten it and I sometimes still suffer from it , though it was not resentful . 
, that it hangs above my writing table . 
When I look at it my chagrin at the loss of the letters becomes almost intolerable . 
