These are stories from Everybody's Magazine , issues . 
Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
XXIII No. JULY THE LAYING OF THE MONSTER BY THEODOSIA GARRISON Dorothea reposed with her shoulders in the shade of the bulkhead and her bare feet burrowing in the sun warmed sand . 
Beneath her shoulder blades was a bulky and disheveled volume a bound year of Godey's Lady Book of the vintage of the early seventies . 
It was with a poem now that Dorothea was wrestling , as she wriggled her toes in the sand and gazed blankly oceanward . 
Under the scorching August sun , the Atlantic seemed to purr like a huge , amiable lion cub . 
It was not the amiabilities of nature , however , in which Dorothea found inspiration . 
A harp of a single string , she sang as that minstrel might who was implored to make love alone his theme . 
Dorothea's mother read recipes her father was addicted to the daily papers . 
It was only in her grandmother that Dorothea found a literary taste she approved . 
On that cozy person's bookshelves one could always find what happened to Goldie or what the exquisite Irish heroine said to the earl before she eloped with the captain . 
In this knowledge Dorothea's parents had no ambition that their daughter should excel . 
In fact , an uncompromising edict on the subject had been given forth more than once to a sullen and rebellious sinner . 
Dorothea had promptly and intentionally fallen in love with the son of her next door neighbor . 
Amiel fresh from his first year in college was a tall , broad shouldered youth , with kindly brown eyes and a flash of white teeth when he smiled . 
It was this unsuspecting person whom Dorothea had , at first sight , elected to be the Hero of her Dreams . 
She trailed him , moreover , with a persistency that would have done credit to a detective . 
Dorothea , emulating her heroine's example by vaulting a fence and cutting across lots , could be found also strolling as he approached . 
She timed her day , as far as possible , with his . 
Would he swim , play tennis , or go crabbing there was Dorothea . 
Would he repose in the summerhouse hammock and listen to entire pages declaimed from Tennyson and Longfellow , the while being violently swung his slave was ready . 
She read no story in which she was not the heroine and Amiel the hero . 
Could Amiel have had the slightest insight into the fancies seething in his small neighbor's mind , he would have been astounded to the verge of doubting her reason . 
She was , moreover , perturbed by the paucity of her native language . 
There appeared to be nothing to rhyme with love except shove , above , and dove . 
Of these one was impossible and two were trite . 
Scowling fiercely at the ocean , she finally gave the bird to the hungry line and repeated the final couplet doubtfully Farewell , he said . 
Ah , love , my love , My heart is breaking for thee , Dove . 
Look out ! said a voice above her . 
Dorothea sat up delightedly , with her bare , brown legs tucked beneath her , Turk like , as she welcomed him . 
Hello , said Dorothea , with a wide grin . 
He flung himself down beside her and surveyed her with amusement . 
Been digging holes with your head ? he asked affably . 
Your hair and eyelashes look it . 
Been here all the afternoon ? Yes , she said . 
I saw you go riding after lunch . 
I've been here ever since . 
I love to be on the beach when there isn't a lot of people bothering around . 
Then she made a wide gesture with her brown hand all of it seems to belong to me , not broken up in little bits for everybody . 
She shook her cropped head vigorously , and the sand pelted down her shoulders . 
She caught it neatly on her outstretched palm , as a boy would have done , and nibbled squirrel like as she talked . 
She did not resent being teased by Amiel she liked it , rather , as representing a perfect understanding between them . 
Also , once removed from the high hills of romance , she was not devoid of humor . 
It was cut in June before you came . 
They didn't want me to , but I just begged them . 
It was such a nuisance bathing and then flopping about drying afterward , and being sent upstairs all day long to make it smooth . 
You funny kid , he said . 
You don't care how you look , do you ? You ought to have been a boy . 
What have you been doing down here all by yourself ? Reading and listening , said Dorothea vaguely . 
She folded Godey's Lady Book tightly to her chest . 
Lady Ursula or no Lady Ursula , she would have died with black , bitter shame at the thought of any eye but her own falling upon the penciled lines therein . 
The horror of ridicule is the black shadow that hangs over youth . 
That strange , inner world of her own Dorothea shared with nothing more substantial than her dreams . 
To the ocean , explained Dorothea . 
It was high tide when I came down , and the waves boom boomed like that , as though it were saying big words down in its chest , you know . 
And what were the wild waves saying ? Oh , big words like she thought a moment , her small , sunburnt face serious and intent . 
Oh , like Robert of Sicily , Brother of Pope Urbane And Valmond , Emperor of Allemaine . 
You see ? Absolutely , he said enjoyingly . 
And so you weren't lonesome ? Dorothea , who had spent her afternoon in a region peopled with interesting and exquisite figures , shook her head . 
You don't get lonesome when you think , she said imagine was the word she meant she used the other as appealing to his understanding . 
Suddenly the vague , introspective look left her face she turned to him with the expression of one imparting pleasing tidings . 
My friend is coming to morrow to stay a week , she said . 
You remember I told you that mother had asked her . 
Well , she's coming down with father to morrow . 
She has never been to the seashore before . 
What's her name ? Her name is Jennie Clark , and she lives next door to us in the city , and we're going to have fun fun fun , chanted Dorothea . 
She sprang lightly to her feet and dug her shoes and stockings out of the sand . 
We can have a game of tennis before dinner . 
This , with a fine disregard for splinters , she proceeded to walk her property tucked under her arm . 
Amiel strode beside her on the lawn . 
She was as sure footed as a goat but when he clutched her elbow as she performed a daring pirouette , she offered no opposition , but proceeded sedately beneath his hold . 
With a weary sigh the Lady Ursula slid finally from the gate post to the ground and proceeded to put on her stockings . 
Jennie Clark arrived duly and was received , if not rapturously , at least hospitably . 
To be frank , Jennie Clark was not among those first suggested by Dorothea as a prospective visitor . 
Jennie had been near , perilously near , the end of Dorothea's list . 
She was in white pique' this afternoon . 
To meet one's friend at the station was an event . 
Dorothea was honestly excited and happy , and she was not at all pained that Jennie Clark's first greeting was a comment on her short hair and her sunburn . 
She had run the unsuspecting Miss Clark very hard to arrive at the psychological moment . 
Jennie was certainly very pretty . 
Presently Dorothea's father and mother and Amiel's stout and amiable parents joined their offspring in the summerhouse . 
One of the affable , if uninteresting , neighbors came as well and , promptly introducing a banjo as a reason for his being , lured the assembled company into song . 
Dorothea , snuggled into her corner , blissfully conscious of Amiel's careless arm about her shoulder , gave herself up to happiness . 
The night was soft as velvet , sewn with the gold spangles of stars . 
The waves whispered secrets to each other as they waited for the moon to rise . 
She had an exquisite little pipe , and she sang the dominating sentimental song of the year with ease if not with temperament . 
Its close was greeted with instant and enthusiastic applause . 
Jennie became instantly the center of attraction . 
It was Amiel who urged her to sing again , Amiel who seized upon the banjo and accompanied her triumphantly through a college song , turning his back squarely upon Dorothea the while . 
Dorothea sat up straight , a sudden , bewildering anger at her heart as she watched them . 
In the midst of the song she announced casually that the moon was coming up . 
Jealousy had no firmer grip of beak and talons on the Moor of Venice than on the crop headed Dorothea . 
In absolute self defense she did an unprecedented and wholly unexpected thing . 
Without warning she burst into song , even as Jennie was coyly preparing for an encore . 
O fair dove , O fond dove . 
O dove with the white , white breast , shrilled Dorothea to her startled audience . 
This was the same song with which Lady Ursula invariably brought blinding , bitter tears to the eyes of those assembled at picnics and hunt balls . 
It had an opposite effect upon Dorothea's auditors . 
With apparently one accord they burst into hilarious mirth , comment , and expostulation . 
My child ! Where did you get that absurd song ? Dorothea , never try to sing again . 
This last from her father . 
Dorothea sat out the rest of the evening in stony silence , which nobody regarded . 
She refused to join in the various choruses no one noticed the omission in the least . 
Long after Jennie was asleep , Dorothea , wide eyed , communed with the Monster . 
This was not an imitation Lady Ursula jealousy at all . 
That was an interesting game at which one played when Amiel occasionally walked and talked with some stray damsel in the colony . 
She had no real jealousy of the young ladyhood that at times intruded . 
But this was different here she was out ranked in HER OWN CLASS . 
In that lay the sting . 
She reflected dismally that this was only Tuesday and that Jennie was to stay until the following Monday . 
She was perfectly and miserably fair in recounting Jennie's attractions as contrasted with her own . 
She , Dorothea , could , at demand , which was seldom , reel off pages of poetry Jennie could sing to appreciative audiences . 
Dorothea could swim and dive Jennie had curly hair . 
Plainly , Jennie had all the best of it . 
Lady Ursula had several times been the life of the party when her heart was breaking . 
Her proud smile had never faltered in the presence of her rival . 
Well , neither would Dorothea's . 
She assumed it instantly in the darkness by way of immediate practice , and fell asleep with the result plastered upon her face . 
In the morning the Monster , wearied perhaps by his session of the night before , seemed to lie dormant . 
Dorothea woke jubilant as the morn and , having roused her friend by the gentle method of half stifling her with a pillow , rushed her through her dressing and led her forth . 
The ocean welcomed them with rapture it caught the sun for them and threw it back in millions and millions of living , rainbowed diamonds . 
The world was all gold and blue and tremulous with clean salt winds . 
It seemed ridiculous that one could be unhappy on such a day . 
Dorothea danced pagan like at the wave edge while Jennie watched demurely from the bulkhead . 
However , it appeared that even on a day like this one could carry black envy at one's heart . 
It was during the bathing hour that the Monster again asserted himself this time for no indefinite stay . 
As a rule , the bathing hour was one in which Dorothea reveled . 
In vain to day did she perform feats of daring and agility that would have done credit to a flying fish . 
No one had eyes for her except an agitated mother and grandmother , who finally ordered her summarily out of the water and into the bath house . 
Amiel had occupied himself in coaxing Jennie into the water and giving her primary instructions in swimming . 
Dorothea regarded her with the disgust of the seasoned veteran for the raw recruit . 
It never wavered even while Jennie shook down her long curls ostensibly to let the sun dry a single lock that in some unaccountable way had felt the touch of a wave . 
Beamingly Dorothea heard Amiel humorously contrast this brown glory with her own short crop . 
Beamingly she fell into the plans for the crabbing party that afternoon . 
However , it was this lightsome expedition that laid the last straw upon the Monster's back . 
The gentle art of crabbing involves the carrying of a long handled net and a huge basket , and a stop at the butcher's to purchase unsavory lumps of meat for bait . 
Hitherto Dorothea had always proudly and vehemently insisted upon carrying the basket the long , hot mile to the bay . 
She hung the basket over her blue flanneled arm and trudged valiantly before them . 
The afternoon was one of long and unprecedented martyrdom . 
Dorothea reviewed it as she changed into her white pique' for dinner , the while beamingly advising Jennie as to the selection of hair ribbons . 
SHE had vaulted fences Jennie had been assisted . 
SHE had baited lines Jennie's had been baited . 
The fact that a week before the offer of help in that delicate operation would have been regarded as an insult to her intelligence failed to occur to her to day . 
Amiel , in return , had stared at her , and in the tone he might have used to a younger brother had said briefly , Well , go on and bait it . 
What's the matter ? She had baited it . 
Also , she had carried home the net while Amiel had borne the spoils and protested courteously when Jennie offered an assisting hand . 
It was dreary consolation to realize that never for a moment had the proud smile wavered . 
From her window she presently saw Jennie , all rosy muslin and tossing curls , strolling beachward with Amiel . 
The sight nerved her to demonstrate an idea that had occurred to her inspiringly during the day . 
Once by simply placing a dewy rose in her golden torrent of hair , Lady Ursula had brought the ball room to her feet . 
In emulation , Dorothea extracted a hair ribbon from Jennie's stock and , failing other means , tied it bandage wise about her head . 
The result was not coquettish . 
It suggested only accident or disease . 
She removed it wearily , and sat down on the edge of the bed to think . 
Plainly , she could not compete with Jennie on the grounds of beauty or accomplishments . 
Apparently the fact of being able to swim , vault , and leap from vast heights constituted none of these things . 
And yet , before Jennie arrived and doubtless after Jennie departed after these five interminable days that stretched before her but why five ? The dinner bell rang insistently . 
Some one was calling her from the stairs . 
Dorothea sat still , with her arms folded on the bedpost and a new thought playing like summer lightning in her brain . 
The thought gradually resolved itself into a problem . 
It was well enough to decide that Jennie must go the problem was how to make her go . 
A telegram or a letter summoning her home ? A good idea if there were any one in the city to send it . 
Dorothea walked downstairs with her brows knitted in thought above the unchanging smile , and in her eyes the look of the rapt soul momentarily expecting inspiration . 
The inspiration arrived during that hour when the denizens of the little colony sat ring wise about the beach fire . 
The neighbor with the banjo had done his worst , and desisted Jennie had piped through her repertoire and was now graciously accepting the support of Amiel's arm . 
Dorothea and the Monster , somewhat withdrawn from the circle , watched a crooked moon lift itself above the horizon and lay a trail of opal glory on the waves . 
Still awaiting inspiration , she regarded it with as little interest as Lucretia Borgia might have given the sunset that preceded one of her little poisoning dinners . 
Presently , as befitted the atmosphere and hour , the talk of the little circle fell upon things ghostly and mysterious strange happenings and prophetic dreams . 
Dorothea , who had a love of horrors , lent a suddenly attentive ear but Jennie , though plainly fascinated , uttered a protesting plaint . 
Mirth followed the announcement of Dorothea's occult powers , which , needless to say , had come as a surprise to her immediate family . 
Dorothea paid no attention whatever . 
Instead she rose to her feet and , flinging her arms wide , yawned elaborately . 
It was a delicate suggestion , which caused the men to look at their watches , and the party forthwith dispersed . 
Dorothea , for all the sand in her shoes , seemed to walk to the house on air . 
The inspiration had arrived , fully accoutered , as it were , on the breath of Jennie's complaint . 
The work in hand called for the dexterity of the true artist . 
Then , seating herself beside the bed an eerie figure in her straight , white gown she shook her head dismally and indulged in a heartfelt sigh . 
Jennie , her nerves already on edge with the ghost stories of the hour before , turned startled eyes upon her . 
What is the matter ? What is it ? she inquired anxiously . 
I feel strange , said Dorothea . 
She turned upon her victim a face full of uncanny suggestion . 
Divested of its perpetual smile , it seemed to Jennie as unfamiliar as a room from which an accustomed piece of furniture had been moved . 
Something terrible is happening somewhere . 
I can tell I always can I am going to have a vision I can feel it It always comes like this . 
With a quick hand she extinguished the lamp . 
It will come in a dream , she muttered . 
It is an awesome thing to seek repose beside one wrapped in trance it is worse to traverse unlighted halls and ghostly stairs in an effort to awake the gifted medium's family . 
The gray dawn was in the room when she was awakened by what seemed to be muffled sobs from the figure beside her . 
In an instant wide awake and palpitating , she fell upon Dorothea . 
What is it ? Oh , what is it ? she cried . 
I have had it , said Dorothea in a sepulchral whisper . 
Oh , she turned dramatically from the instant question , I can't bear to tell you ! It was about you . 
Dorothea , you've GOT to tell me ! I think you're HORRID . 
I'm going right downstairs to tell your mother . 
Of course I'm going to tell you , said the sybil crossly . 
She resumed her chest tones hurriedly . 
It was sent to me to tell you . 
I wanted to prepare you . 
I saw a room , chanted the inspired one , a room in a large city . 
I can see it now . 
There are blue rugs on the floor , and the furniture is oak . 
There is a canary bird in one , and the other has a seat with blue cushions . 
Why , that is my mother's room , Dorothea ! You know it is . 
In the bed a woman is lying . 
That was my mother ! It must have been ! Oh , Dorothea ! The sybil drove in the fine point again . 
Why doesn't she come back to me ? she reiterated . 
The program that had proceeded so smoothly now received an unexpected hitch . 
Jennie paused suddenly in her garmenting , relief growing in her face . 
After all , she observed , I don't believe mother had anything more than one of her sick headaches . 
She has them all the time . 
I wouldn't go home just for that . 
I do believe that is it , Dorothea . 
It was time for rapid thought . 
Another moment and the fine dramatic work of the morning would have gone for naught . 
For a moment Dorothea staggered , but for a moment only . 
I didn't tell you everything , she said mysteriously . 
Your mother is not alone in the bed . 
She is holding something in her arms . 
No slightest shame visited the brazen one's heart at the sight of Jennie's instant joy and excitement . 
Moreover , she cannily advised her friend as to the mode of proceeding . 
If you tell them downstairs why you are going , they may not let you . 
They don't know about visions . 
Just tell them that you're going home and NOTHING ELSE . 
This advice , followed to the letter , produced no little agitation at the breakfast table . 
Jennie simply announced her intention of immediate departure all questions as to her health , happiness , and possible reasons were met only with a parrot like repetition of the fact . 
The solution was presently found by a sympathetic and consoling circle the child was homesick she wanted her mother . 
The lure of sails and picnics having failed , Dorothea's mother came to a decision with sympathetic tears in her eyes and a glance toward her own innocent . 
She shall take the first train home if she wants to . 
The child sha'n't be miserable . 
No , don't urge her , Bob . 
I was homesick myself once , and I understand perfectly . 
Dorothea reposed in the shade of the bulkhead , sand on her person and a great peace in her heart , upon which the Monster , departing , had left no scar . 
Under her head was the Godey's Lady's Book , in which , over the picture of a brocaded pelisse , she had recently finished a poem in which lover rhymed with forever . 
Presently he drew a letter from his pocket and flipped it over to Dorothea . 
Your mother asked me to give you this , he said . 
She thought it might be from that pretty little friend of yours . 
Dorothea opened the letter with some trepidation . 
Presently a bland smile over spread her countenance . 
The day of reckoning that she expected to dawn upon her next meeting with her victim melted cloud like as she read Dear Dorothea I arrived home safely . 
It's just as well I did , because my aunt was waiting to take me to Lake George , but you made a mistake in the vision . 
It was Mrs. Gray across the street and hers is a boy , but I think that was very near . 
I think the vision was perfectly wonderful , but I am glad I don't have them . 
My mother says I can come again later if your mother wants me . 
I didn't tell her why I came home , because she doesn't believe in them either . 
She presented her love to several people and added in a postscript , Let me know at Lake George if you have another . 
Dorothea tore the letter into minute scraps and gave them over to the sea breeze . 
Well , queried Amiel idly , what does she say ? She says she arrived safely , said Dorothea . 
XXIII No. JULY pages THE GOLD BRICK AND THE GOLD MINE Fake Mining Schemes that Steal the People's Savings By EMERSON HOUGH Author of The Mississippi Bubble , or Fight , etc . 
It is time vigorous efforts were made to stop the cruel frauds perpetrated on the name of one of the world's greatest industries . 
Mining is a legitimate and honorable enterprise . 
It contributes immensely to the national wealth . 
It has been the source of some of our great fortunes . 
Because there is something magical in the suggestion of gold or coal or copper taken out of the ground , sharpers have made mining an instrument of successful deception . 
They have tricked people into investing their savings in worthless or even non existent mines . 
Doubtless your money has disappeared . 
It is for the purpose of giving you the protection of a knowledge both of legitimate mining and of the ways of thieves that this article is published . 
AMERICA is the land of the free and the country of opportunity for all . 
Incidentally , it is free hunting ground for sharpers , and a land of opportunity for the unscrupulous . 
No such chances for fraudulent business exist anywhere else in the world . 
Americans are the richest people on earth , and the most easily parted from their money . 
Those whose sole ambition is to get rich quick very frequently help some other man to get rich quick . 
Society owes no debt to either of these . 
It is obliged to support them both . 
This is wrong both as a moral and as an industrial proposition . 
Once , a dollar was spent to mine a dollar . 
To day two are spent One dollar goes into blasting powder , the other into advertising and office furniture . 
No doubt you have heard the age old legend of the Mother Vein of Gold , which appears and vanishes , now and again , in this corner of the world . 
Superstition regarding this great original vein of gold is found wherever men seek the precious metal . 
The feverish Spaniards called this phantom lode the Madre d'Oro , or Mother of Gold . 
Now it is located in Mexico , now in India or Peru , California or Australia . 
Any intruder who by chance or design looked down into this valley was smitten absolutely blind . 
Tradition among the successors of the Aztecs says that when Montezuma passed , the Madre d'Oro sank back again into the earth , and has been seen no more . 
Men still follow the phantom vein . 
Those who see it , even in their dreams , still are smitten blind . 
Gold ! There is no other word that means quite so much . 
We want gold indeed , we must have it . 
Malleable , divisible , indestructible , rare , it is the indispensable medium of exchange . 
It is our chosen unit of power and success , the measure of civilization and human attainment . 
Hence it has always been the object of human desire . 
The Golden Fleece very probably was the sheepskin bottom of an old time sluice box , in a day when they used wool , instead of blankets , below the rocker troughs . 
In the vast ruined civilization of Southeast Africa unknown men once mined probably , , worth of gold . 
There are mines profitably operated in Greece to day which the Phoenicians opened , B. C. Sixteen hundred years later the Romans owned all the mines in Europe . 
Hannibal once paid his warriors in gold coin of Carthage . 
Egypt was settled by the Semitic races , B. C. , because of the gold that was found there . 
Columbus found America when he was searching for the wealth of Ormus and of Ind . 
Cortez and Pizarro toiled and slew in the hope of finding the Madre d'Oro . 
The great discoveries of the world have been made by men in search of gold . 
The great voyages of exploration were in part piratical voyages made in search of gold already found and mined by others . 
The peninsula of Sinai did not sell stock , but mined actual gold . 
Gold in those days meant actual risk and courage . 
Perhaps even then fraudulent promoters weren't unknown but he who ventured , in the days of Vespasian or Hannibal or Hiram , too prominently to gild the gold brick certainly lost his head . 
The mining of gold was then a sober and serious and honest matter . 
In America we place the gold brick ahead of the gold mine . 
We mix alloy of duplicity and greed with the virgin metal of our standard of value . 
By improved mining methods we nearly double our output of gold , and so cheapen it by well nigh a half . 
This shrunken gold dollar is small enough but that is not all . 
We adulterate and divide it by , say , another half when we falsely double its cost . 
This we certainly do when we issue counterfeit promises as against good coin for in civilization and commerce always the genuine coinage has to pay the cost of the counterfeit . 
Your tailor charges you a stiff price for your suit of clothes . 
That covers the clothes of the dead beats who did not pay . 
To allow the sale of a fraudulent mining stock is to depreciate the basis of this country's values . 
Such a wrong ought not to be allowed in a country claiming an enlightened government . 
It is the thief who is protected in America , not his dupe . 
The old law of caveat emptor protects the SELLER of fake mining stocks , not the BUYER of them . 
There is little or no actually enforced law to protect the latter . 
The fence between these and the natural perils of the world is slight enough . 
In America we break it down entirely . 
We offer these helpless ones freely as victims to the greater cunning and strength of men wholly without sense of business honor or personal decency . 
When we do this , we also attack the whole system of savings banks , which is , or should be , the very bulwark of a nation's financial safety . 
Says the wolf to the widow , to the busy professional man , to the clerk , the stenographer , the wage earner Take your money out of the savings bank . 
What is three per cent . 
a year , when I can make you three hundred per cent . 
a year ? Give your money to me ! We permit that . 
The field is one devised by nature for the trickster . 
His success does not depend altogether on human gullibility part of his argument rests on the conditions which surround the industry of mining , one which never can be free of extreme risk . 
None of these attending features has weight to stop the capitalization of bona fide enterprises . 
These latter are used as bait by men who have nothing bona fide to offer , and who make their fattest profits out of their shallowest shafts . 
THE SUCKER LIST IN WALL STREET Methods vary among such fraudulent operators , but new victims continually are found . 
This operator proudly declares that the only way a sucker can get his name off that list is to die . 
In the reorganization of the firm of Douglas , Lacey Co . 
, of New York City , it was discovered that , persons had money invested in stocks of the company . 
The best bait in this particular operation was a trust fund established for the benefit of stockholders . 
The proceeds of the better paying mines were to be applied to pay dividends for those which were less successful . 
In this way , the various directors of the many Douglas Lacey Companies explained , it was impossible for the investors to lose . 
The reorganization , intended to save some of the better properties , wiped out more than seventy per cent . 
of the small stockholders widows , schoolteachers , stenographers , washwomen , scrubwomen all who once had a dollar in the stocking . 
, of New York , used the effective bait of the instalment plan of payment . 
Their literature and advertising offered sudden wealth at twenty cents a share , payments to be in instalments , the best twenty offers to be accepted . 
If you think the operators could not afford to do that , you are ignorant . 
There was an old negro woman in the South who often importuned her white friends for funds to build a certain somewhat mythical church . 
They asked her what she received for the time spent in collecting . 
I has what I gits , was her frank response . 
NEW ENGLAND DONE BY AN INSANE MAN Sometimes there are victims in enterprises of this sort where there probably was no deliberate intent to deceive or to defraud . 
Three alienists are said to have declared him insane . 
In ex Governor John G. Brady , of Alaska , endorsed Reynolds and his schemes , and is reported to have collected in New England about , for these Reynolds projects . 
Brady gave lectures and stereopticon exhibitions in New England churches . 
At Boulder Bay he took his party into a long tunnel , the face of which they were told was composed of solid copper ore . 
When they emerged into the garish light of day , each was given a bright copper nugget , said to have come from the mine . 
ALASKA REYNOLDSIZED Really , according to local report , these nuggets of native copper had been taken from sluice boxes on Chittitu Creek , miles inland . 
Reynolds , so ran the story , had treated them with an acid bath to brighten them , knowing that bright bait is better . 
At any rate , the good , sober New Englanders went back home and sent him , more , which set him entirely dippy , in local phrase . 
Reynolds's scheme was to run all the barber shops , laundries , bars , and pretty much everything else on the Alaskan coast . 
A steamship company , it was said , got , of money on a forfeit . 
Another kind of bait offered is that of the prominent name . 
This has proved more useful in England than in this country . 
In this country we have no lords whom we dearly love , so the names of prominent literary or scientific men sometimes are employed by wise promoters . 
A prominent mining expert is excellent bait . 
We are all familiar with the literature of this class , sent to us under the guise of personal and intimate confidence . 
Always that part of the communication is followed by the blackfaced type where the stinger lies concealed . 
The words AT ONCE usually come in capitals , as do LAST CHANCE , and PRICE POSITIVELY WILL ADVANCE AFTER TEN DAYS . 
Millions and millions of dollars have been extracted from the public by these means . 
There is no law against it . 
ADJOINING MINES GOOD BAIT Then there is the same old argument about wonderful properties adjoining such and such a dividend paying property . 
Very often the properties are miles apart . 
They might be within twenty five feet of each other , and one still might be worthless and the other rich . 
The profits of old and famous properties very frequently are given in advertising literature of this class , to show what money there is in mining . 
You can use Michigan to tout him on to Arizona Utah to land him in California Mexico to interest him in Alaska . 
Is it not true ? There is no law against it . 
Again , the appeal to your mining pocket may come , not through the advertising page , but in the proper person of the promoter or owner himself . 
For instance , not long ago a gentleman from California came into my office . 
He owned a mine on the old and well traced Mother Vein , of Tuolumne County , California . 
At the proper time the gentleman carefully produced from his pocket a little ingot of pure gold , product of one test mill run . 
He gave the best of references as to his responsibility . 
He offered to guarantee ten per cent . 
dividends on all money invested , and declared that he had a banking proposition and not a mine . 
, My Christian friend , said I to him , you seem to have a good thing . 
How far is it from your mine dump to the nearest bank ? About five miles , he answered . 
In that case , said I , it seems to me you don't need to sell a hundred thousand dollars' worth of stock to build a stamp mill . 
You need only enough to buy yourself a good , strong wheelbarrow . 
In two or three months you can thus build your own stamp mill and pay for it with ore , and still have your mine all in your own hands . 
Now , perhaps he had a real mine . 
I have no right to doubt that he had but the point of interest to the small investor is this NEITHER HAVE I ANY RIGHT TO BELIEVE THAT HE HAD . 
The thing for me to do , had I wished to invest in this way , would have been to send an expert to see the property personally . 
ENTER THE FINANCIAL AGENT In this game of plucking the dollars of the poor and the ignorant , there has been a gradual improvement in methods . 
Experience in most lines of commercial activity has shown that the middlemen often gather in the largest profits and have the smallest losses . 
Many of those working the mining game and by this is meant selling stocks on wind and water have made use of this fact . 
To day in the majority of cases we have , in place of the prospector or the company selling stock direct to the suckers , the financial or fiscal agent . 
The financial agent of this description is in reality the organizer and promoter of the mining company whose stock he sells . 
But should trouble come along , he is the first to assert that he has been deceived as well as his customers . 
He sells the shares of the mine on a commission basis so large that practically nothing is left for development . 
He takes out of the money secured large salaries and the entire expense of advertising and carrying on the exploitation . 
He prepares all the literature . 
One of the advantages he claims for his proposition is the wide distribution of the stock as a safeguard against assault by wicked Wall Street interests . 
CULLED TWO MILLIONS IN FOUR YEARS In this wide distribution , however , lies one of his own greatest safeguards against either criminal or civil prosecution . 
The poor seamstress has no way of knowing any of her fellow unfortunates . 
Hence the utter impossibility of cooperation in seeking to get back their savings . 
New York Cable Address Douglacey Anglo American and Bedford McNeil Codes Telephone , Rector DEAR MADAM June , . 
It is true that we have sold stock for our customers at various times and we are glad to do so when it is possible . 
Very truly yours Douglas , Lacey Co . 
In pursuing this method , few promoters have had the success of Dr . 
He is credited with having gathered in a half million dollars in his International Zinc operations . 
This company was supposed to have valuable zinc properties in the Joplin district of Missouri . 
To unload its stock on the people of this country Lyman organized the firm of Joshua Brown Company , Bankers , incorporated under the laws of West Virginia . 
Through them the stock was sold until the collapse of the scheme in , when the investors found that what property it did own was heavily mortgaged . 
It was stated that the mine had cost , and that so much ore was in sight that an offer of , had been refused . 
The Union Securities Company , with offices in New York and in Goldfield , Nevada , started the stock at forty five cents and lifted it to a dollar . 
It was merely another name for John Grant Lyman . 
The brokers began getting contracts for the stock and then were told that the Union Securities Company was all sold out . 
It had not cost him much . 
He owed the newspapers of this country , for advertising , which went unpaid . 
Boston Greenwater Copper stock can still be found in many a stocking of humble folk . 
SALTING WITH A CIGARETTE It is not , however , always the city promoter who furnishes all of the crookedness . 
He himself may be deceived by those who sell him the mine . 
Some of the most thrilling stories in literature might be written about salted mines . 
And as to such large jesting we advance in finesse . 
The old way of salting a placer or a quartz vein with a shotgun is now antiquated . 
A little while ago a party of capitalists bought a Nevada placer on what they thought to be strictly a cinch basis . 
With their own hands they collected the specimen dirt from all over the claim , and they watched a Mexican miner pan the dirt at the creek . 
The pans showed up beautifully . 
Later , it proved worthless . 
Afterward they remembered that the Mexican smoked cigarettes all the time he was panning , and that he was careless in expectorating , as well as in knocking the ashes off his cigarettes . 
The truth was that the highly intelligent Greaser was using the cigarette trick in salting the pan . 
The most honest , careful , and expert mining engineers have been deceived time and again , and salted right under their own eyes . 
Even a bland Chinee may be fooled . 
They were not taking any chances , in their own belief . 
On this planking a man lay face downward where he could see each ore car that passed . 
The mill run was an entire success from the viewpoint of the sellers , although not from that of the buyers . 
There is no working law , let us repeat , which actually protects the investor against this sort of thing , nor which always protects even the promoter , though he be honest . 
THE MAIL AND MINING THIEVES As matters stand to day , the man selling mining stock on a fraudulent basis fears the Post Office Department much more than he fears the District Attorney . 
That is the main protection which the public has against such schemes . 
But to depend upon it is like trying to stop Niagara with a dam of reeds . 
It is a mail order business pure and simple . 
Let us see what machinery the Government has to protect you and prevent the letter carrier from bringing daily to your door the flamboyant literature intended to lure your money from the bank . 
of this force is required to do the routine work of the inspecting branch that is to keep the machinery running smoothly and to prevent delays . 
That leaves just ten per cent . 
for actual detective work such as is necessary in running down thieves and in tracing frauds . 
In the New York district , which comprises the state of New York as well as New York City , there is a force of twenty five men working under a chief inspector . 
He was tried three times , finally convicted , and sent to prison . 
That case cost the Post Office Department , , took a man's entire time for two years , and required two trips across this continent . 
The Government has not tried since to get many such convictions . 
Perhaps because of the pressure of other work , perhaps for other causes , investigations of this nature are allowed to languish . 
Some years ago , when the firm of Douglas , Lacey Company was reaping its harvest , an inspector was assigned to investigate the concern's operations . 
He was one of the ablest inspectors of the service , a man with real detective ability and a knowledge of the devious ways of certain kinds of financing . 
He made a trip to Mexico and subsequently sent in a report to Washington recommending that a fraud order be issued against the concern and that its use of the mails be stopped . 
He waited a long time and then got word from Washington that more evidence was required . 
He made another investigation and sent in another report , recommending in even stronger language that the mails be barred and the public protected . 
While on this work he was constantly assigned also to other matters and finally was shifted to a station in the South . 
The concern collapsed some years later , leaving thousands of people in this country and in Canada bereft of their small savings . 
The burden of proof is on the buyer . 
If he turns to the District Attorney he finds perhaps a sympathetic official , without power to assist him . 
The man selling bogus mining stocks knows all this therefore his harvest goes on . 
It is better than the green goods game , better than the wire tapping swindle , safer than selling any other form of gold bricks . 
He asked Mr. Moran's help in proving that King was a swindler . 
King wasn't selling corner lots in heaven , but he was selling stock in a Texas company that was the next thing to it , so far as tangibility is concerned . 
It was only when he actually took from investors money sent to him to buy real stocks , and pocketed it , that he was put in jail . 
This law has been enacted in six states and a campaign for its general enactment is under way . 
But let not the credulous investor suppose that even such a law would guarantee him against loss . 
The greater part of mining frauds are perpetrated without the use of the mails . 
The proposed law , in our judgment , is the longest possible step toward preventing mining frauds . 
A second step has been taken in the form of a publicity law . 
These may restrict and furnish protection to those who are wise enough to open their eyes , but it will be impossible to protect all the fools all the time . 
The next work of our organization will be along the line of developing some manner of control of corporations by which paid up capital stock shall represent actual value . 
Mr. Callbreath would seem to be one fore doomed to his own troubles yet it is clear that he and his organization stand for legitimate mining as opposed to prospect selling . 
Add to the glamor of risk the haze of fraud , and the foregoing will show the nebulous condition of mining investments in relation to mining laws in America to day . 
What we really need is a Bureau of Mines at Washington . 
Nobody protects the mining investor . 
Nobody guards the widest open gate into the savings deposits of this country . 
The American Mining Congress , it should be stated , had a quasi pre inaugural pledge from President Taft in favor of a Federal Bureau of Mines . 
Toward this we have made a start . 
A bill establishing this Bureau has already passed both the House and the Senate , and bids fair to become a law . 
But the activities of this new department will be confined to safe guarding mineworkers . 
The next step should be to enlarge the province of the Bureau so as to include the supervision of the mining industry for the protection of investors . 
It seems quite likely that the states and the nation will need to unite if adequate protection to the investing public is to be expected . 
But when did state and nation unite to solve a great popular problem ? When did section ever unite with section or even resident with nonresident ? This is America . 
THE ENGLISH WAY OF MINING HONEST BUSINESS Back of any movement of this kind there must be popular interest in popular education . 
Thus far , the greater publicity idea is of more value than anything at hand . 
best do our own little part by offering some studies in the theory of mining , showing just WHY it is risky , and just HOW we ought to tabulate the risk . 
In addition to this , we can present , and should perhaps first present , some of the results of intelligent mining as pursued in other countries . 
Take the Rand Mines of South Africa , operated on the English basis mines which turned out more than , , in one month not long since . 
The English method of operating on the Rand is this A corps of experts is sent to examine a proposed property that is to say , a proved prospect . 
If their report be favorable , an estimate is made of the cost of a five or seven compartment shaft , to be sunk , say , , feet . 
The cost of producing a year's supply of ore for the mill is then considered . 
The cost of the mill and the cyanide plant is also figured . 
The total cost is then cast up , and the company is ready to be formed for a half million to five millions of dollars , according to existing conditions . 
This money is paid in , and is ready to start operations . 
These men mine carefully , using all possible scientific knowledge and practical experience as guides . 
The operation may have risk , but it is perforce honest . 
He locates one or more claims as controlled by the laws of the district where he is . 
Perhaps others also locate more ground . 
A little work is done , and then the claims are up for sale . 
A claim is perhaps sold for a few hundred to several thousand dollars sometimes the seller receives in addition stock in the company to be formed . 
No attention is paid to the geology , but a company is formed ostensibly for the purpose of mining , with a capital of one million shares at one dollar par . 
Perhaps four hundred thousand shares are placed in the treasury to be sold for development purposes . 
Of course the whole thing is as yet on a wholly gambling basis . 
The property is still a prospect and not a mine , and hence it is not possible to put it on an investing basis . 
This is the stage at which , this is the basis on which , most of the mining investments of America are made . 
In this state of affairs grafters find their opportunity . 
Prices in a boom camp are always above any sort of industrial warrant . 
There were literally millions of dollars poured into Goldfield and Tonopah for claims which never had any careful examination by competent men . 
Fortunes were made by local promoters and operators out of claims which could not show ten feet of actual work . 
Sometimes the entire capitalization was sold out , and the promoters put the money in their pockets . 
One operator of this kind sold , worth of stock , and omitted the precaution of putting even ten per cent . 
of it in the treasury . 
Fortunately , he got into the penitentiary . 
Many of his fellows never had actions brought against them except under the postal laws , which naturally are inefficient . 
There was one shaft of a hundred feet which cost twelve thousand dollars , charged up to the stockholders , the names of dead men being used on the pay rolls as laborers . 
The mine boss and the local officers got big salaries to keep their mouths shut . 
The real mine was in the savings banks of America , in the pockets of non residents . 
In Nevada alone , in the past four years , more than twenty million dollars have been invested in WORTHLESS properties . 
The promoters often take the cream . 
Suppose a company is organized for three million shares . 
One million is put in the treasury for sale . 
Of this million shares , say , two hundred thousand are offered at twenty five cents . 
This raises a working capital of fifty thousand dollars . 
Let us be very glowing , and suppose that , with this fifty thousand dollars , we really uncover five million dollars' worth of ore . 
The net profit would not exceed three million dollars so that the man who put in twenty five cents might , after a long time , get back a dollar . 
In the meantime , two million dollars would have gone to promoters , in commissions , and so forth . 
There are thousands of such cases , and still the people continue to bite on such bait . 
THE PUBLIC THE MINE Instances of actual Nipissing rises caught in time by the lamb are very rare . 
I rom first to last , the PUBLIC is the mine , AND THE RETURNS COME OUT OF THE SAVINGS BANKS . 
In some mines high grading the carrying away of valuable pieces of ore by the miners themselves is fought as sternly as the diamond stealing by the Kaffirs in a Kimberley mine . 
In yet other mines , far more numerous , high grading is encouraged among the miners . 
The report gets out that the ore is so rich that the miners steal it in their dinner pails . 
WALL STREET MAKES THIS MONEY OUT OF THE MARKET AND NOT OUT OF THE MINE . 
In spite of all warning and all examples , the average American will to a certain extent persist in gambling in mining stocks . 
What , then , is a mine ? What are some of the inevitable features in developing a mine ? In the first place , there must be prospecting . 
This is sheer and unavoidable risk on the face of it , and it is attended with economic waste which cannot be avoided . 
Of a hundred prospectors , ninety nine die poor . 
The failures must be charged off to industrial waste attendant upon inherent conditions of the mining industry . 
Again , in the development of a mine after it is located and proved in part , there is more unavoidable economic waste . 
The rock is blank and silent . 
It can only be explored by means of expensive drifts and drillings . 
In one mine at Bisbee , Arizona , a shaft was sunk which had drifts at the and feet levels , all without result . 
Later on they found a blanket of copper between those two levels , from which six million dollars were taken . 
Even in old established mines there is something of a chance , and there are often unwittingly false standards of values . 
Which is no argument for making all gamble that which originally was part gamble . 
When your deposit is drawn out , your bank does not honor your check . 
A mine is the reverse of a mortgage or a bond . 
The security does not remain stable nor increase in value , but , on the contrary , CONTINUALLY DECREASES in value . 
In a mortgage , six per cent . 
is wisdom in a mining return , it is folly . 
A mine , instead of being figured on the basis of a mortgage , ought to be figured on the basis of a term annuity . 
That is to say , on the basis of a wiping out date . 
When the mine is done paying dividends , there is no return of the face of the principal invested . 
Yet the great and gullible public forgets this all important fact , which differentiates mining from every other form of business . 
CRACKER BOX INVESTORS There is every probability that the average investor never heard of a proper amortization charge in the management of a mine . 
Until he shall have heard of it , until he shall have learned something of the terms of life annuities , he ought never to invest a cent in any mining stock . 
After he actually has learned the theory of amortization , he will observe that ALMOST EVERY MINING STOCK LISTED IN PUBLIC PRINTS IS SELLING AT AN INFLATED VALUE . 
That is to say , even the best and most stable of mines are overrated , not to mention the purely wildcat ventures . 
In this investing , the public has no protection on the part of the government , on the part of honest publicity , or on the part of its own careful education . 
In the MAJORITY of cases , a mine ought to pay annually perhaps twenty per cent . 
of the investment , to be profitable . 
That is to say , the actual value of any mine is rarely over five times actual dividends paid after expenses of operation . 
How many mines are capitalized on any such real basis as that ? The answer lies in our own ignorance , and in the shrewdness of the men who sell us mining stocks . 
Stocks that are the best dividend payers often sell at TEN or TWELVE times the face of the annual dividends . 
Let the mine hit a brief streak of bonanza , and the stocks will climb yet higher . 
We buy such stocks , or worse but even a fundamental acquaintance with the theory of mines would show us that such an investment is usually a bad one . 
In a mortgage we do not look to the interest to pay us back our principal in a mine we MUST look to DIVIDENDS to pay us back our PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST also . 
When the mine is done , our principal is gone . 
But how many mining investors ever thought of that ? And how many , when offered a ten per cent . 
a year for nine years and then explaining what had happened to the cracker box ! Now , most of us are just such cracker box investors . 
We pay out millions and millions annually , just that foolishly . 
And our nation , our states , allow us to do it . 
They even as recent legal proceedings prove allow the inside operating stockholders to borrow money to pay dividends to the outsiders . 
That keeps up the values in the market . 
It does not enhance the real value in the mine . 
All of which means nothing ! A well regulated English company is obliged to go much farther than this . 
Such work should , of course , cover all incorporated mining companies , not merely a few hundred of the more prominent gold mines and it should be continuous and not spasmodic . 
Such a plan is of course Utopian , but I feel that anything less would be likely to do little good . 
Even Curle's opinions began to lose their value within a month or two after they were written , and are of less value every year . 
Those are the sober words of an expert who spends his life in studying the theory and practice of mining . 
If such words shall teach us a little wisdom , so much the less need for laws . 
Let us agree that no government can guarantee the safety of any investment . 
Beyond that , the national government could take a hand in the game through a federal Bureau of Mines . 
There must be some clearing house of intelligence and of values in this country , some place from which our intelligence may start and to which it may return . 
The public must have accessible reports of engineers , state or federal , of a sort entitled to confidence . 
In this work , state and national governments , popular education and intelligence , and the aid of the better class journalism of America , all must be enlisted . 
The pages of our press might well be far cleaner than they are . 
The publication which prints the advertisements of a fake mining enterprise is itself a party to the fraud . 
A Bureau of Mines chief can sit behind the desk of every advertising manager in the counting rooms of every newspaper and magazine in America . 
It can reduce the reckless and senseless expenditure of ill gained wealth which is making civilization a mockery in America , and branding our republican form of government as a failure . 
We will have a different way of life , or another form of government . 
We will have a better administration of law in the United States or we will have another political party , possibly another political system . 
We will clear up this rotten society , or we will try how we like a different organization of society . 
The people of America are beginning to murmur . 
The burden of the murmur is that they have long enough been betrayed . 
Unspeakable injustice has been done the people of America under the forms of law and government . 
It is coming to be said that our law and government have not an even hand for all , that a few are allowed to despoil the many . 
When a people murmurs , let a government beware . 
After all , the government of this country , as we now have it organized , depends on the CHARACTER of its average individual citizen . 
The end of this abuse of fake mining enterprises begins now , here , with you and me , in OUR intelligence , in OUR love of a square game . 
By taking thought we can add a cubit to our OWN stature , and so add to the stature of OUR laws and of our national morality . 
Perchance we might write and ask the mining promoter what , in his belief , is the proper amortization charge in his particular mine . 
At which the average mining promoter would probably fall dead . 
XXIII No. JULY HOW THE MAN CAME TO TWINKLING ISLAND page By MELVILLE CHATER OUT of the great world came a man to the wooing of Susanna Crane . 
The man was tall and strong , with hair that gleamed red in the sun , and eyes of a reddish brown . 
She saw the man lying in a shaft of the sunset , and started back , then , tiptoeing past , bent forward slightly to examine his face . 
In that lingering gaze a twig cracked beneath her foot . 
He sat up instantly , tense , expectant then for a silent space their eyes caught and clung . 
Thus the first pair might have gazed when Adam wakened to find her who was bone of his bone , flesh of his flesh , standing over him . 
Did I scare you , Miss ? at length asked the Man . 
I thought well , I didn't know who you might be at first . 
His gaze deepened into unconcealed admiration . 
I wouldn't scare YOU for anything ! I ain't so easy scairt , the girl returned defiantly . 
Ef I was , she went on in her fresh , young voice , full of queer , upward inflections , I wouldn't be a berryin' in Ragged Woods after sundaown . 
She marched onward , her head thrown well back . 
Twenty steps later the Man was again at her side . 
Pardoname , little one ! he said . 
But , seein' you ain't scared , an' thar bein' no blaze in these yere parts , maybe you'd put us on the trail . 
An' what lies on ahead , whar you're goin' ? he asked . 
Why , nothin' , she returned with a child's surprised simplicity . 
Nothin' but Twinklin' Island an' father an' me . 
At length he said quietly Think I'll g'long over with you to your island , camarada . 
Maybe your father's got a bite o' something for a hungry man . 
I pay the freight , sabe ? 'Twon't take me more'n a couple o' hours to make the railroad to night . 
To this she vouchsafed nothing , but swung onward , shifting her heavy basket from one hand to the other then a strong grasp intervened , and she found herself burdenless . 
I don't want no help , she said proudly , I kin carry that . 
Not while I'm here , chiquita mia ! He smiled downward , and his body seemed to loom over her like a shield . 
Say , when I woke up an' seen you , do you know what come into my head ? A little Navajo squaw I knowed once . 
Her name was Moonlight Water , but the fellers called her Little Peachey . 
ALL right , he acquiesced with broad , kind humor , vet without relinquishing his burden . 
ALL right , chiquita mia ! Never you mind me , Little Peachey ! They gained a bare tongue of land lapped by water . 
She stepped into a canoe , the Man following . 
Straight ahead lay the island , breasting the Atlantic swell . 
Seen from the distant hills , the red sunset strikes its outpost cliffs for a moment's splendor , and so it is called Twinkling Island . 
The girl said not a word , nor indeed was it necessary . 
He found the beach without trouble , helped her ashore , and carried the canoe up the slope on his back . 
A hundred yards onward they encountered a low , rambling house and the vague shape , in the twilight , of an elderly man smoking his pipe on the steps . 
The stranger set down the canoe and gave an account of himself . 
Meanwhile his listener , a man of weather beaten face and a great shock of gray hair , observed him with shrewd attention . 
At length he replied Thar's few strangers git to Twinkling Island but so long as you're here , you're welcome to our plain victuals . 
The money's neither here nor thar . 
Seems you're mighty particular to git that canoe high an' dry to night . 
The girl wheeled abruptly and strode indoors , flashing at the stranger a covert , half defiant glance . 
Gals are queer cattle , mused old Crane , drawing off his fisherman's boots . 
'Pears to give 'em a kind o' satisfaction to set a man to work . 
Her mother was just the same , before her . 
They sat down to supper in a low'ceiled room of smoked rafters . 
The stranger ate hungrily and with few words , yet always his gaze followed the girl's slim figure as she moved to and fro , waiting on the board . 
As the food disappeared , the talk sprang up . 
The girl brought in a huge pitcher of cider and left the men by the fireplace , while she passed back and forth , clearing away the dishes . 
Crane set out a decanter of whisky , which spirit he mixed sparingly with his cider , as did also his guest none too sparingly . 
He spoke of Alaskan totem poles , of Indian sign language , of Aztec monoliths buried in the forest . 
He sang Lather an' Shavin's , La Golondrina , The Cowboy's Lament , and , clicking his fingers castanet wise , hummed little Spanish airs whose words he would by no means translate . 
He glanced after her for a moment , then turned with a queer smile . 
We're all 'baout the same , I reckon , he said , so far as furren countries is consarned . 
That's to say , a man allaways conceits thar's a heap o' promise waitin' for him , somewhar over yonder . 
Naow , you've seen sights enough for a hundred men . 
Contrariwise , thar's my gal never been further'n the Caounty Fair . 
But that don't stop her no sirree , human nature can't be stopped . 
Every night , fair or storm , she walks daown an' sits on the rocks , lookin' seaward , before she turns in . 
She's done it ever since she was SO high . 
I say it's just furren countries pieces she's got outer story books , an' yarns she's heard the fishermen tell that's what's she's hankerin' for , Mr. McFarlane . 
So ye see , as I say , we're all 'baout the same , that way . 
I don't talk much 'baout it not that it's a thing to he ashamed of but I wouldn't give the gal a handle to think herself different from any one else hereabout . 
I'm English stock myself , but the wild breed mixes slow it's in her blood , Mr. McFarlane , and sometimes it worrits me . 
And proud ! Thar's not a man hereabout she'd lift an eye at , and one feller that wouldn't take no got his head split open with an oar . 
Sometimes I've thought that ef she was married to a strong man strong AND kind , d'ye see ? 'twould be the best thing for her . 
At this the stranger , who had missed no word , leaned quickly forward , the firelight striking his firm face . 
With the poise of conscious power he said quite simply I'm the man ! They eyed each other a moment , Crane measuring the Man who had come , the Man inviting measurement . 
You mean ? asked the father . 
He paused as if welcoming interruption , but it was not in this man's slow , sure nature to interrupt . 
Tell us what you do mean ! I mean , repeated the other slowly , that I'M THE MAN ! I love that little gal , I want to marry her . 
O' course you objeck that's natural , that's right . 
I like your objectin' , an' I'm going to fight it to a show down . 
First you'll say , You're verruckt crazy . 
I'm no lightweight , an' I need the diamond hitch . 
But to day , when I seen Little Peachey in the scrub over yonder , why , it was different , and I knowed it right quick . 
Ever broke a horse , have you ? Well , before you've got your lassoo coiled , the critter's eyes'll tell you just what sort o' tea party you're goin' to have . 
Thar was a man once a hoss wrangler an' the easier a hoss broke , the more he'd mouch around an' hang his head , real melancholy and sad eyed . 
Maybe that's what I seen in Little Peachey to day . 
Just now you said the wild breed mixes slow . 
It does for it sticks out , waitin' for its own kind . 
And by that same token , blood talks to blood aye , even without no Indian sign language . 
Maybe all these years Little Peachey , settin' out on them rocks , has been a watchin' for more than foreign countries . 
Aye , mebbe that's all right . 
Crane paced the floor , and his voice rose savagely Don't know but what your palaver mightn't win plenty o' foolish gals . 
But who are ye ? What's your trade ? Whar's your folks ? Thar's lots o' rogues afoot . 
I like your talk , he said . 
It comes straight off the hip , an' it calls for a straight answer . 
Once I had a brother in New Orleans , another in the Northwest , and another who drank himself accidentally into the British army an' died in the Sudan . 
We were wanderers , the lot of us . 
I'm Scotch Irish , and my old mother used to claim we harked back to the kings o' some outfit I've forgotten . 
But blood facts is no more proof than specimens from an unprospected claim . 
Friends ? I make 'em everywhar any one on the top o' the earth who's got the makin's of a man kin call me friend . 
Yet right here an' now I wouldn't touch the twelve apostles for an assay on my character . 
'Cause why ? 'Cause I hold that , just like a man lays in his own little square o' earth , so a man stands alone on his own little piece o' reputation . 
Good or bad , friends or no friends , it's his'n and the Almighty files a pretty good chart of it right on his face . 
I want you to size me up accordingly . 
Again the father gazed deeply at the Man who had come , and again the Man gave him the full of his eyes . 
Crane's glance shifted suspiciously from the other's face to the decanter and back again the Man immediately responded by lifting his glass . 
Fill that up three times raw , he said , and I'll swaller it in three breaths , just to show you what a drink IS . 
No , sir , it's hot your picayune drop o' spirits that's talkin' it's me . 
Acabado ! Finished ! And , tossing the contents of his glass into the fire , he replaced it upside down on the table . 
Yes , said Crane wonderingly , you're sober and you're honest . 
You certainly are honest ! He paused as if to steel himself . 
See here , now Stay along and work for me awhile . 
I'll give you half shares in the boat . 
But just wait , wait awhile . 
Some day you'll speak to her about it , and then then mebbe I'll see it different . 
But the Man rose restively . 
It comes hard on you , he mused , aye , mighty hard but it ain't all my doin' , Mr. Crane , nor yet Little Peachey's . 
It's something bigger'n the lot of us it's nature . 
You might as well put your back up against a landslide . 
As to stayin' on here , 'tain't in me I must hit the trail to morrow morning . 
But to night thar's somethin' in here and he struck his breast that won't keep it's got to be said . 
I've spoken my little piece , an' you say you size me for a man . 
Bien ! Bein' a man , I take no favors . 
No sir , I ain't no empty handed brave . 
Little Peachey bein' the squaw for me , an' I havin' told you so , an' smoked your tobacco an' drunk your whisky , I hereby deliver . 
An' now I'm goin' to find Little Peachey . 
He strode out into the night and toward the forelands , his ears guided by the monotonous crash and moan of the long Atlantic swell . 
Standing on the cliff was a wind fluttered figure that turned at the sound of his step , with eyes defiantly alert . 
You knew I'd come , he said simply , drawing close to her . 
I ain't a goin' to listen , she cried sharply , drawing back . 
I don't want none o' your words . 
You just leave me alone , now , Mister Mister Why , names don't count between us , chiquita , said he , with his great hearted smile . 
I hate you , you Man . 
Don't you come near me , naow ! I hate you , I could kill you ! But he only smiled down upon her kindly , understandingly . 
That's what the father said aye , or somethin' mighty like it but I told him , I wrastled with him till he savvied . 
And makin' no secrets between us , Peachey I paid him two hundred dollars down , to call it quits . 
His voice quivered deeply as he drew near and laid his hands on her shoulders . 
Instantly she raised her face , and their glances met in one quick flare . 
He felt her shiver in his grasp like some panic stricken animal , then she turned and fled from him . 
Breasting the house , he saw that she had swerved toward the island's long , leeward neck , from whence there was thrown a narrow pile bridge connecting it with the mainland . 
Now he felt beneath him the soft pad of pine needles , little twigs switched his face , and warm , odorous airs breathed their welcome . 
At a sharp turn he came suddenly upon a cleared space shoring along the water's edge , lit by a blazing camp fire . 
Within the circle of the glow she stood , a spent , panting figure , half supported by two men . 
A hunting dog dashed forward , menacing the oncomer with stiffened back and bared teeth . 
The man strode into the group and said with quiet courtesy Good evening , gentlemen . 
I am glad you rounded her up , for both consarned . 
Peachey , my hat's off to you an' all your tribe you'd have run till you dropped . 
I see , gentlemen , that you're sizin' me up , which is natural an' gratifyin' . 
But things is square an' satisfactory between me and her , I do assure you . 
The younger of the two a tall , keen faced man of city bred appearance turned to the girl and said with irritation I don't understand . 
What does he mean ? Are you his wife ? She was leaning against a tree , her face averted . 
No ! she panted vehemently . 
No , no ! Tell yer it's Crane's gal , insisted the second man . 
They live over yonder on the island . 
I pointed it aout a comin' through the woods , the day you landed up here , Mr. Hemsley . 
Have you any claim on this girl ? demanded Hemsley , wheeling upon the stranger . 
Touchin' claims , returned the other , with sure emphasis , I am not for filin' mine with the first party immediately convenient . 
He turned to the girl . 
Who is this man ? Tell me everything you needn't be afraid , Miss Crane . 
I'm not afraid ! she flashed sullenly . 
He was a layin' in Ragged Woods this afternoon , an' he carried my berry basket home an' stayed to supper . 
And afterward he caught hold o' me , he did , an' tried to kiss me an' I ran away 'cause 'cause I hate him . 
I hate him ! Her shrill cry ended in a passionate gesture . 
Wheeling , she marched down the slope to the water's edge , where she stood looking out into the night . 
All at once the man threw his face up to the sky and burst into a great roar of laughter . 
Right you are , Little Peachey ! he called . 
Thar ain't no more to be said than that just you an' me in the Ragged Woods at sundown . 
An' now Blessed if we ain't downright stampeded ! It's a reg'lar round up , Peachey ! And he laughed again uncontrollably . 
Well , said Hemsley at length , I don't like the looks of things , and I'm going to make it my business to take Miss Crane home to her father . 
I advise you not to make any trouble until you've proved who you are . 
Rockledge County Jail is only six miles away . 
The other sobered to a statue , then turned , regarding Hemsley with mild fixity . 
Gentlemen , he said , gentlemen both . 
I ain't askin' for your help , and , as far as I can see , neither is Peachey . 
Gentlemen , a mule is a most onsafe critter . 
Even when you go to his funeral , you'll do well to sit at the head of the coffin . 
Then all three turned quickly , for there had arisen from below the sound of a grating keel . 
That settles it , said Hemsley with dry satisfaction . 
Miss Crane has gone home in the canoe . 
So much the better I'm not looking for trouble . 
But the Man gave one great laugh , then he was off like a shot , down the slope and into the water . 
At shoulder depth he overtook the canoe and clung to its stern . 
Go up forward , Little Peachey , he cried , an' sit mighty still till I swing in , else we'll be swimmin' in another minute . 
There ! And drawing himself up over the stern , he seized the paddle , while the canoe leaped forward beneath his powerful strokes . 
From somewhere along the shore came the sound of voices , but the camp fire blazed deserted . 
Gradually its light diminished to a twinkling spark in the blackness . 
For a while no word was spoken , the man bending to his task , the girl crouching with averted face in the extreme bow . 
Then a little new moon peered over the distant pine tops , the heavens spread their starry veil , and the hour of Susanna Crane's wooing had come . 
Me ! You ! intoned the Man , to the sweep of his paddle . 
Then I got away quick and careless like but the Big Chief he leads me up here an' sets me in the woods , an' sends you along the trail . 
Blood for blood I thought He meant , but I wakes up and Que gracia ! thar you stands . 
And your face it says to me , Come on , you wicked , red handed man . 
So again I says , Praise God ! Will you travel with me , camarada ? he went on . 
The whole big world's waitin' for us . 
I kin read an' write , an' my arms are strong . 
We'll ride the plains an' climb the hills an' swim in the rivers , and when you're tired I'll carry you on my shoulder . 
Then we'll take in the big , flat cities , Little Peachey , an' walk around 'em at night , lookin' on friendly . 
Yes , we'll drop in at all of 'em , stringin' out across the country like sideshows on the old Chicago Midway . 
And one o' these days , when we're gittin' real old , we'll pull up stakes an' start off to locate our last campin' ground . 
Thar ain't no maps nor surveys to it it's just somewhar over yonder , and we'll know it on sight , Little Peachey . 
Peachey , a man read me some pieces out o' a book once , and I wrote 'em down an' learned 'em . 
For springtime is here , it says , thou soul unloosened the restlessness after I know not what . 
Oh , if we could but fly like a bird ! Oh , to escape , to sail forth as on a ship ! Camarada , give me your hand . 
I will give you myself , more precious than money . 
In the bow sat the girl , motionless as a crouched Indian , her face fixed upon the nearing shore . 
I've seen enough of this , said Hemsley , facing him , to know what you are . 
Miss Crane , can you find your way home alone ? Jim , you and I will walk this man over to Rockledge . 
Peachey ! called the Man , retreating instantly . 
Come on over here thar's goin' to be trouble . 
Git behind me , Little Peachey ! In the landing place there was driven a heavy stake . 
He drew this forth , then advanced , saying earnestly Gentlemen both , you size me up wrong . 
Now , I ain't lookin' for trouble , but don't you bank too strong on takin' me anywhar with you to night . 
Hemsley's right hand drew backward , then came the level glitter of a long revolver barrel . 
Drop that ! he began . 
Well struck , Little Peachey , cried the Man and he stepped protectingly in front of her , with upraised stake . 
But she stood from behind him and leveled the revolver full at Hemsley . 
I don't want your help , she said . 
The words came torn from her in sobbing whispers . 
Git ! Don't you come back no more . 
Don't you send no one lookin' for this man . 
I kin take care o' myself , I guess . 
And the look in her eyes warned them to go . 
Now the Man and the Woman were alone in the black hush of the pine woods . 
I saved you , she said at length now go away from here . 
Yes , go ! And as her face lifted defiantly to his , her voice slid upward like the lonely , untamed wail of some wild creature . 
Peachey , he whispered tenderly , you hate me but could you kill me Little Peachey ? And he smiled his great , full hearted smile . 
Then her hand fell , her head sunk upon his breast , and a strong shuddering filled all her young body . 
Oh , Man , Man ! she breathed , as his arms closed about her . 
XXIII No. JULY pages By Alice MacGowan and Grace MacGowan Cooke Authors of Return , A Story of the Sea Islands , etc . 
Is Ellen worse to day ? The opening and closing of the front door brought in a swirl of red and yellow leaves from the porch outside . 
No. It's just that I got Mary Louise Jackson to come over and play with her . 
I'd do more than that to keep her here , his wife returned almost fiercely . 
Sometimes I think it would be better if we moved away from Watauga . 
Don't you grieve , Fanny , he said . 
Ma'Lou's a good companion for Ellen . 
The kid's better trained and better educated than half the white girls of her age in Watauga . 
If things go well , in a year or two we'll send Nellie to Baltimore and see what the big man there can do for her . 
You shall have a daughter that can dance like you used to , honey , and he patted her shoulder gently . 
She turned with a little , gasping sigh to put up her tired face for his kiss . 
Here's your feast , she called to them in the gay tone we use with sick children . 
I'll go down and give your father his dinner , and you two can play any kind of party you want to with this . 
They's molasses pie , Nell , Ma'Lou said joyously . 
Oh , I'm going to bring it over there and fix it by the side of the lounge . 
We'll play you' a sick lady , and I'm you' trained nurse . 
Just wait till I fix my handkerchief into a cap like they wear . 
Mrs. Kendrick turned away and left the children at their play . 
Mary Louise Jackson had been kept at home from school that she might come over and spend the day with Ellen . 
For when Ellen Kendrick was ill , her cry always was , Oh , send for the doctor and Mary Louise . 
It was in the early eighties , and the Queen Anne style of architecture was just coming into great popularity in the South . 
Jackson , who could well afford it , had let an architect have full sway in producing for him a dwelling in the new mode . 
From this the honest , industrious , and enterprising man had built up a transfer business which was the best of its sort in town . 
At first she had kept his books and made out his bills and she always insisted on the best of schooling for their children . 
The negro girl had smooth features , and her mother saw to it that she was always spotlessly dressed and that her manners were perfect . 
The children of her race take to good manners very readily , being usually amiable and eager for approbation . 
And the two girls loved each other of course they did . 
The pair grew up in a companionship closer than that of some born sisters . 
The mere fact of this intimacy was not regarded by the Kendricks with any disfavor whatever . 
Scott and Fanny both had played with negro children , both had been reared by negro mammies . 
And Ezra Jackson's wife watched jealously that the preponderance of gifts and favors should be always on her child's side . 
If any present were given Mary Louise in the Kendrick house , her mother always retorted instantly , as one might say , with something better or handsomer . 
She turned the question in her mind and sought for some substantial favor or patronage which she might offer to the Jacksons , to quiet once for all her offended sense of fitness . 
Mrs. Jackson stood in the kitchen door , and , at the juxtaposition of the dark skin and the well washed clothes , an idea promptly occurred to the lawyer's wife . 
Good morning , she called in a friendly tone . 
I wanted to ask you something I guess I'll come through the gate and go out your front way , if you don't mind . 
Ezra Jackson's wife ran down the steps and put out a hand to help the tired woman with her packages . 
Mrs. Kendrick rested them on the railing of the back porch . 
Your clothes look lovely , she said meditatively . 
You get them out so early . 
Aunt Dicey's too old to do the washing and cooking both any longer . 
I've been thinking for some time that I would really have to get me a washerwoman . 
Fanny Kendrick looked at the handsome , well kept house and its dignified , serious faced mistress , and a feeling of irritation rose within her . 
After all , Ezra Jackson's wife was just a negro , and there was no use in feeling embarrassed or in supposing you didn't know how to deal with negroes . 
Good gracious ! what was the world coming to if you couldn't offer work to folks without blushing ? But she did not complete her sentence . 
As you say she does it very nicely , and is quick about it . 
I pay her half a dollar , and she gets done , as you see , a good deal before noon . 
But the work is satisfactory , and I think it pays better . 
No , thank you , she said shortly . 
I couldn't any more afford that than I could fly . 
I didn't know Sally Payson had got to charging like that fifty cents for less than half a day's work ! I declare , prices are enough to ruin a body these days . 
She went on to her own home smarting . 
And when she told her husband about it afterward , he received her recital with a sort of humorous impatience . 
Ezra Jackson could buy me out two or three times over . 
I'm trying to act all his legal business . 
He's bringing a big suit against the railroad . 
If he gives it to me I shall be able to send Ellen to Baltimore this year instead of next . 
Well , said Mrs. Kendrick , submissively but acidly , if you want me to go and apologize , I suppose I can . 
The South is getting to be a queer place when white gentlemen have to be under obligation to negro teamsters . 
I certainly don't want to interfere with your business in any way , Scott , she concluded plaintively . 
We're hard up all the time I feel it deeply that poor Ellen is such an expense to you . 
Scott Kendrick's ready arm went round the weary little woman . 
An apology would be worse than the offense , Fanny , he admonished gently . 
the Jacksons are in an absolutely new position , and have to be treated in a new way . 
You wouldn't go and ask Mrs. Ford or Mrs. Brashear to do your washing and the Lord knows that neither Jim Brashear nor Bate Ford makes half what Ezra Jackson does . 
The world is changing , honey , and we have to change with it . 
II As they grew older , the association of the two girls , in spite of the affection between them perhaps because of it began to present almost daily problems and embarrassments . 
Ellen's health was worse , her nerves were shattered , and she clung with more and more insistence to this one healthy companion , who responded with a tireless devotion . 
Once , when she spoke apprehensively of the matter to her husband , Scott Kendrick answered with astonishment Why , Fanny , it's only a question of health a little bodily improvement . 
We'd break it off to morrow if Ellen was well . 
You'll see there would never be any more of it if I could send her away for that operation . 
But the white people had not , as they supposed , this anxiety all to themselves . 
The timid , conservative , colored mother regarded the friendship with growing anxiety . 
And before Scott Kendrick got together the money to send Ellen to Baltimore , Ezra Jackson's wife had coaxed her husband into letting Mary Louise go North to school . 
The Watauga public schools , with a term or two of Fiske , at Nashville , afterward , had been good enough for the other children . 
But the mother craved wider opportunities for this , her youngest money was freer with them now and Mary Louise went to a preparatory school , then to Oberlin . 
Ellen Kendrick returned from the hands of the surgeons in Baltimore much improved in health . 
She was sent back twice afterward for treatment . 
Finally she walked as well as other girls , and hastily made up her arrears of education , as best she might , at a private school in Watauga . 
Grant Payson was a sober , ambitious , industrious fellow , who seemed to feel from childhood the weight of responsibility for his people . 
A widow's only boy , he had worked hard and studied hard . 
With a very fair mental endowment , he was able to get what the Watauga public schools could give him , secure a few years training at Nashville , then read law . 
Both families knew that Grant wanted Ma'Lou . 
Whether the girl would marry him and settle down in Watauga had been a matter of anxiety , often talked over between the two mothers . 
For they also knew of and discussed Ma'Lou's opportunity to take a position as private secretary to one of the instructors in her college . 
They understood that it was a situation which would pay fairly well , and give her associates who gained an added glory in the minds of these humble folk by their distance . 
The two Southern bred black women could see in such things as the girl reported only the wiping out of all race barrier , the sudden achievement of equality . 
And the colored elders , looking on , felt that as these twin idols of the girl turned out , so rose or fell the chances of keeping her with them in Watauga . 
Grant instituted at once a courtship as ardent and eager as it was open and avowed . 
His people , florid and colorful in temperament , are natural wooers , free of the language of affection and adroit in its use . 
Mary Louise received his advances with curious reservations , as though there were positions and premises she defended against him . 
She did open the subject to the girl next morning , approaching it obliquely . 
But after a little profitless skirmishing she came out with Looks like you must have said something hard to Grant last night he never came in to say good by to me . 
I could love him dearly if I'd let myself . 
But , mother , I just can't settle down to live here in Watauga . 
There's nobody and nothing here for me . 
You're still grievin' about Ellen Kendrick , she said finally . 
If I were you I wouldn't let that go the way it has . 
Don't she hesitated , with eyes full of helpless solicitude upon her daughter's face honey , don't wait for any sign from Ellen , because you won't get it . 
I know she thinks a great deal of you . 
She's stopped me on the street more than once and asked all about you and what you were doing . 
I don't see why you shouldn't go to the side door and go in and have a nice little visit with her . 
Mary Louise considered this suggestion at some length . 
She had the wider outlook which some travel gives , and , in Oberlin , she had been where the race question was relatively negligible . 
That afternoon she brought the cards down in her hand , and , full of an unwelcome timidity , made her way to the side door of the Kendrick house and rapped . 
Mrs. Kendrick answered and received her with a certain thin cordiality that suggested reservations . 
The fact was that Ellen was having a little party that evening , and the colored girl would perhaps be in the way . 
Shall I stop and see Ellen a minute , or may I just leave these with you , Mrs. Kendrick ? asked the tall , brown skinned young woman finally . 
Ellen will be crazy about these . 
She's got a postal card album , and she hasn't anything in it from Canada . 
Ellen ! Come downstairs , honey Ma'Lou Jackson has brought you something pretty . 
Mamma , do come and look at these lovely postals , Ellen cried effusively a little later , as her mother , plainly ill at ease , passed through the room . 
I'm going to pull out those that Cousin Rob sent me from Texas , and put these in right after the California ones . 
See here , mamma isn't this one beautiful ? Ma'Lou was there a week . 
She's put a little cross over the hotel where they stayed . 
Mrs. Kendrick looked at the strong , well developed figure of her guest , and a certain dull anger arose in her mind . 
This was a vacation trip . 
Because if Penny goes out and tells her friends , every darky in town'll be retailing the story to the folks that hire them , and it'll soon be all over the place . 
She came back into the dining room to find Ellen glowing with enthusiasm . 
Yes , her mind was still that of a sick child she had dropped back into her old time attitude toward Mary Louise . 
Oh , I don't understand very well , but she can tell you it's just beautiful , and we could make it out of the chrysanthemums in the side yard , she says . 
But there was no window in the dining room which commanded the street except the side light of the bay , and at it Ellen herself sat . 
Nobody passing would be apt to see Mary Louise over in the room . 
I reckon we can't go into those things , she objected , a little irritably . 
I suppose Ma'Lou has seen a heap of fine doings up North that we couldn't possibly attempt . 
But she's promised to make me a lot of cute little candies like potatoes , and put them in paper baskets to go at each plate , put in Ellen , jealously . 
The brown faced girl nodded and laughed , with a quick flash of white teeth . 
She was safe , if only Ellen would show some sense and judgment . 
Well , I must go on home , now , if I'm to make those candies and have them ready by this evening , said Ezra Jackson's daughter , getting to her feet . 
They take a good while to harden properly . 
Ellen went with her to the side door , clinging to her arm and insisting on some last remark . 
Mrs. Kendrick , in an agony of apprehension , hovered in the background . 
Oh , well , said the daughter of the house finally , I won't bother you any more about it now , Ma'Lou . 
It's hard for you to explain just how to fix it , but you can show me when you come over this evening . 
I'll have the chrysanthemums ready . 
You come a little early won't you , please ? Mary Louise , in the doorway , glanced from mother to daughter in some confusion . 
Would this do ? Her own mother had cautioned her to be certain to go to the side door . 
I I don't know , she hesitated doubtfully . 
I'll bring the candies over , if you like , and I might be able to show you a little about the table then . 
Why , I supposed you'd be here when I was giving the party , Ma'Lou , argued Ellen petulantly . 
I don't see why not ! Isn't it all right , mother ? she appealed sharply . 
Shouldn't Ma'Lou come over this evening ? For one desperate moment Mrs. Kendrick sought to shape a policy Ellen's words sounded frightfully like an invitation to the party . 
Would Mary Louise accept them so ? Her worried , resentful glance traveled over the tall , dignified figure , the correct , quiet costume . 
Oh , it had no business to be as hard as this ! But she must make the girl understand she could not run the risk of injury to Ellen's belated social opportunities . 
Why you see we she began , in an agony of embarrassment , we can't we can't Her voice failed her . 
She looked fleetingly at Mary Louise , who returned the gaze with a look hurt , accusing , difficult to meet . 
She drew her breath sharply , and began again with more resolution . 
We'll have an extra maid in to help with the serving . 
If you don't mind staying in the dining room with her She ceased and waited hopefully , to see if the girl understood . 
There was an uncertain silence . 
Ma'Lou , if you'd stay in the dining room with Tillie , and wouldn't mind wearing a cap and apron like she does , why you could come over and look on . 
Ellen Kendrick had seen somebody coming down the street . 
Arrived at home , she went methodically to work upon the promised candies and the little baskets that were to contain them . 
Ezra Jackson's wife , noting the face of set misery , forbore long to question her as she brought out the novel materials and pursued her work . 
Finally , when she could bear it no more , Did did something hurt your feelings over there , Ma'Lou ? she asked huskily . 
She spoke behind her daughter's shoulder . 
The girl set the last finished basket in its place in the row before she turned to answer . 
Then she showed a face so much more cheerful and composed than the elder woman had dared hope for that the relief was almost revulsion . 
Sit down , mother , said Mary Lou , pushing a chair with her foot . 
Sit there while I fill the baskets , and I'll tell you about it . 
The mother sat and watched the deft brown fingers , and marveled at the girl's collected manner , her quiet , even voice . 
The old teamster had given his child a heritage of rare good sense . 
Early in the recital the woman broke in bitterly with And yet you're making candies for her party ? Such as that is all they want of you . 
And I'd never step foot in their house again ! Why , mother , I'd certainly make these . 
I promised them , said Mary Louise mildly . 
She put the last tiny candy potato in place , pushed back the basket , wiped her hands , and turned fully to her mother . 
But you're exactly right about not entering Judge Kendrick's house again , she said , with increasing emphasis . 
I can't go in at the front door as a friend that's true I can't . 
There's no way but Don't say it , honey ! gasped the mother Wait a minute . 
This was the end , and she could not quite face it . 
She was to lose her youngest and dearest . 
Mary Lou was going back North to live among the white people . 
Her head went down on the table the convulsed face hidden in her arms . 
Then broke forth the cry of the blood Oh , Lord ! I reckon I'm just another fool nigger woman that's raised a child too good for her own color . 
I wish I was dead I wish I was dead ! Mother mother ! The girl flung herself on her knees beside the chair , and caught at the other's dress . 
Don't take on that way . 
I'm look around here I'm glad of what happened over there to day . 
It's shown me the truth about a good many things . 
We're all black people together . 
It's the only way for us now . 
I'm not going back to be Professor Sheridan's secretary a black woman among white people . 
I'm going to marry Grant he's everything to me these people are nothing and settle right down here in Watauga with him and be happy and useful . 
Mother , you didn't make any mistake in the way you brought me up . 
I'll be a credit and a comfort to you yet . 
XXIII No. JULY THE TRIAL BALANCE pages By MAXIMILIAN FOSTER Author of Corrie Who ? etc . 
Like so many others of her class , Stella Willoughby was a satisfied , confident woman , placidly aware of the station her husband's money assured to her . 
Looking over her shoulder now , she glanced nonchalantly across the club dining room . 
I believe we did know them before they dropped out . 
He lost everything , didn't he ? went to smash , as I vaguely remember . 
Still with the same air of unconcern , she dipped the tips of her fingers in the finger bowl , and prepared to rise . 
In the hall , while the maid was putting on her wraps , she turned and looked back , still idly as before . 
A moment later , smiling gayly , she walked down the steps to her carriage , and , with her guests , was driven away to the theatre . 
Willoughby was a fair type of the money getter . 
Perhaps his reasons were sufficient who knows ? Perhaps Willoughby was as well aware as they that the friends of to day might reasonably become the enemies of to morrow . 
But at home the money gathered so ruthlessly elsewhere was thrown about with a lavish hand . 
In that she had already tasted the illogical enjoyment of one that can obtain power in no other way . 
And it was because of this place that his money had bought her that Mrs. Willoughby began to look on her husband with a critical eye . 
For she was an ambitious woman , though one with definite limitations . 
Among different surroundings and in an atmosphere less sordidly striving and commonplace , she was fitted to have become , with some encouragement , an admirable and utterly inconspicuous wife and mother . 
But here , in this narrow , money getting environment , many things prevented among them , primarily , the way in which she had been brought up . 
He had drummed into her head the single lesson that without money one is nothing . 
In itself it suggested to the few a plausible reason why she had married Willoughby . 
There had been nothing openly unhappy in their life together . 
And now , as she sat back in her carriage , remembrance came rapping like an unwelcome , unadmitted visitant . 
She tried to put it away by chattering smartly the theatre wagon rolled along to the clicking of hoofs on the asphalt but through it all the troublous knocking persistently recurred . 
Whether she had really loved her husband when she married him , or whether she had not instead been dazzled by his peculiar abilities remained in doubt . 
Severance had come first he had a little money to begin , and he was doing well with it and seemed on the road to do better . 
Therefore , her friends were secure in the belief that she would marry him , when Willoughby had made his appearance . 
He went at this love making of his as he went at all his affairs implacably bold and ruthlessly sweeping aside whoever or whatever came into his way . 
Briefly , he had become bankrupt in a mining deal . 
He and others , Willoughby among them , had gone into a Wyoming copper prospect the Teton Sisters Company and while Willoughby apparently got off without damage , Severance had dropped everything . 
How , was never clearly understood . 
Severance and his sister had parted with their home to satisfy his creditors , and then moved away . 
In the twelve years of the Willoughbys' married life , the tide of money had kept steadfastly on the flood . 
Nothing his hands touched seemed to fail him . 
Now his dollars jingled in every state of the Union and they jingled in his own home , too , almost as the only evidences that the home was his . 
She sighed to herself regretfully . 
Some minutes after Mrs. Willoughby had found her seat in the theatre box she was aware of another party coming down the aisle . 
Hello ! exclaimed the man beside her , here come Hudson Mills and his wife with Case Severance . 
I didn't know he was in town . 
Mrs. Willoughby laid a gloved finger to her lips and affected to yawn , though she stole a glance out of the corner of her eye . 
Her guest was now nodding over her shoulder at the arrivals in the seats below . 
Anyway , I hear they've lined their pockets . 
This mixed metaphor affected Mrs. Willoughby with a curious interest . 
Oh , is he ! she exclaimed , and , glancing down , she looked unexpectedly into Severance's watching eyes . 
But she seemed not in the least disconcerted . 
Severance was just turning away , mindful of the previous snub , when , with a reassuring smile , she bowed , and then smiled again . 
For why not ? Severance's position had been reestablished in her world . 
It was late that night when Mrs. Willoughby returned home . 
There was a light in her husband's library , and before going to her room she stopped and tapped at the door . 
Willoughby , with a pile of papers stacked before him , sat with his chin in his hand , staring absently at the wall . 
As the door opened , he turned for a moment , and then , seeing who it was , thrust his hands into his pockets and slouched down in his chair . 
Well ? he murmured , absently . 
Mrs. Willoughby , slipping out of her wrap , dropped into a convenient seat . 
Are you still at it ? It's nearly one o'clock , Harmon . 
Yawning slightly , she wriggled her feet out of her carriage slippers and kicked them under her chair . 
Willoughby looked up , silently watching her , and a momentary small shadow crept into his face . 
Yet the shadow , small as it was , could not have been because of any flaw in his wife's appearance . 
Willoughby must have known another reason to frown . 
Where've you been ? he demanded , heavily , his voice bare of any interest . 
He was a large , florid man , heavily built , square jawed , and with the deep , scrutinous eyes of one aware of his own power and accustomed to enforce it . 
But now his eyes seemed listless , as if weary of the strain that had kept them so long on the alert . 
I ? At the club , she answered , briefly . 
Though her own home was large and amply appointed , few were ever asked there to anything more formal than a luncheon or an afternoon at bridge . 
The hospitality there entailed no other bother than paying the bills . 
Just dinner at the club , and the theatre afterward . 
She stripped off her long gloves and dropped them to the floor beside her carriage slippers . 
Again her husband studied her , almost covertly , one might have thought . 
Any one there ? Willoughby began absently to pick at the edges of the papers on his desk . 
No one you'd care about , I think . 
There were only three tables besides mine . 
Mrs. Chardon and her daughter with some of her young friends , and then Mrs. Willoughby closely inspected one of her rubies . 
The Severances are back in town , Harmon . 
He and his sister were there with Hudson Mills and his wife . 
Severance with MILLS ! cried her husband , lifting his head alertly . 
It was not often that Mrs. Willoughby's talk with him evoked such instant attention . 
See here , Stella , are you sure it was Severance ? Sure ? Sure whether it was Severance ? Why , of course I am ! she answered petulantly . 
She and her husband had never discussed the man , and it seemed a late day now to begin . 
What in the world is ? she began , and then desisted . 
Willoughby , slouched down in his chair again , had dropped his chin on his breast and was nervously gnawing his lip . 
His wife leaned over and gathered up slippers and gloves . 
I think I'll go to bed , she murmured carelessly , and wandered toward the door . 
Willoughby made no response , and she turned and slowly came back . 
A calendar hanging from the gas bracket had fallen a little aslant , and she reached up and critically straightened it . 
Harmon , I hear Case Severance is rich again . 
I wonder how he managed it . 
Hey ? Who ? Willoughby jerked up his head as if startled from a dream and not a very pretty dream , either , if one might judge from his countenance . 
Oh , you mean HIM , he uttered thickly . 
I suppose he's been up to some of his games again . 
An almost savage dislike and contempt evidenced themselves in his tone , and pushing back his chair , he picked up his papers and arose . 
You'd better go to bed Stella , he suggested brusquely , averting his eyes from her quick scrutiny I've got a lot of work here . 
She laid a hand on his arm . 
What's wrong with you ? she asked intently . 
There was alertness in the question , rather than responsive softness . 
Willoughby drew a hand across his mouth . 
I've had a hard day . 
Aren't you going ? Yes in just a moment . 
She had moved toward the door again , and now was standing with her hand on the knob . 
It's Willard's birthday next Wednesday . 
He'll be eleven , an he wants an electric runabout . 
The Doane boys have one , and he's just crazy about it We'd better let him have it . 
Willoughby frowned , and irritably ruffled the papers in his hand . 
No he sha'n't have it . 
He's too young , and besides Oh , nonsense , Harmon ! Willoughby fluttered his papers more irritably than before . 
Well , he can't have it that's all I have to say . 
Mrs. Willoughby gave her gloves a disdainful , careless twirl , and went on her way to her room . 
To her astonishment , a few moments later , she heard the front door slam . 
He was away for nearly a week and when he returned , his eyes were heavy and blood shot , his face was pallid and wearily drawn . 
Well , so you are back . 
What have you been doing ? Mrs. Willoughby asked , perfunctorily . 
He answered evasively , Oh , just away on business . 
As he walked to the window and looked out , she carelessly turned the pages . 
Stella , what did you do for the boy's birthday ? he asked , slowly pacing back to the foot of the bed . 
The boy ? Oh , I gave him some money , and sent him down town with the coachman . 
Smiling lightly , she went on glancing through the paper . 
I suspect he stuffed himself on candy . 
But there was no answering smile on Willoughby's face . 
On candy ? How much did you give him ? Without looking up , she answered as lightly as before . 
Oh , I can't remember now . 
Then she vaguely named an amount , and Willoughby pressed his lips together . 
Well , what of it ? It seems of little consequence . 
She buried her face in the paper again after this shot , and Willoughby stared at her . 
No , he murmured , reflectively , an alarming bitterness in his voice nothing seems of any consequence . 
As she glanced casually over the top of her paper , she saw him draw a hand across his face but , still vexed , she took no warning from the sign . 
Well , there's no need of making a fuss , is there ? she asked , rebukingly . 
Thus showing how distasteful the subject had become , and , having had her say , she instantly changed the topic . 
You're coming home Thursday night , aren't you ? Willoughby watched her absorbedly . 
Why ? Oh , I just wanted to find out . 
It's the night of my dance , you know . 
A dance ? Your dance ? He drew in his breath , and his hands , gripping the bed's footboard , closed a little tighter . 
Oh , for heaven's sake , Harmon ! Mrs. Willoughby threw down her paper irritably , aware only of the unspoken protest in his manner , and disdaining to analyze it . 
Where is he now ? he added abruptly . 
I think I'd like to see him . 
Mrs. Willoughby flounced down among the pillows . 
I don't know at school , I suppose . 
Aren't you going to your office to day ? Willoughby shook his head . 
He turned to the door , moving heavily and there , at last , in his sunken head , his shoulders wearily bent , she caught some hint of the man's hidden emotion . 
Astonishment at first ousted all else from her thought , and she gaped at him in wonder . 
Then came a small , chilling touch of fear . 
HARMON ! At the swift call he looked back at her . 
Harmon ! Has anything happened ? His answer was an evasion , and she knew it . 
I'm staying home to see some men . 
But the moment's fear was too stressful to be so easily set at rest . 
Wait do you hear ? She slipped from the bed , and , with her eyes still fastened on him she groped about till she found her down slippers . 
Willoughby had slowly opened the door , but his wife angrily reached over his shoulder and pushed it shut . 
You SHALL tell me ! she insisted , fiercely determined . 
I want to know what's happened . 
Willoughby shook off her hand , and renewed his effort at the door . 
He was in trouble , and trouble , to her , meant but the one thing a money trouble . 
It was the first time in her years of placid , self possessed vanity that any terror like this had come to jar her . 
You want to know ? he answered , and smiled at her in grim , accusing mockery . 
All right , then I'll tell you . 
You'd better be ready for it , too . 
In his brutality there was a guarded note of self pity , as if to see her suffer would somehow rejoice him in his own trouble . 
Well , I'm smashed up that's all . 
I'm ruined ! Mrs. Willoughby , shrinking away , laid a hand on her lips and stared with distended eyes . 
RUINED ? she gasped , unable to believe him incredulously , as if at some barbaric jest . 
Ruined ? She had turned quite white . 
Oh , the usual way flying too many kites , I suppose . 
Poor ? he growled savagely . 
Now that his money was gone , they attached to themselves a newer significance , accusing and indefensible . 
Mean , hey ? I mean they've got it away from me Mills and that fellow Severance . 
It was the prettiest thing I owned , too , he groaned , careless of what he was saying , and blurting out the acknowledgment . 
They're going to sue for the money , too ! What money ? she persisted , hollowly , determined now to know all . 
Oh , what's the use of talking about it ? he growled , and then instantly his voice dropped . 
Stella , I'm sorry for your sake . 
We'll have to begin all over again , dear . 
But you shall talk of it ! she directed , with a cruel and cutting significance in her voice . 
You can't hide it from me now . 
Then he thrust out his jaw with a reawakened truculency , now aimed at her . 
Well , then it was the money I took from that fellow from your old friend , Severance . 
He was You took it from him ! she cried . 
You mean you STOLE it ! Willoughby's mouth twitched , as if she had struck him a blow . 
So that's the way you look at it now , is it ? he said , his voice quietly effective . 
All right , then ! I came in here hoping to get a word of sympathy from you perhaps a little kindness . 
But I knew it was only a hope . 
He drew a deep breath . 
Now don't work yourself up over him , I warn you , my dear . 
I won't tell you why I ruined him , years ago , but I'll tell you how . 
You've called me a thief , so I'll give you some more facts before you jump at conclusions . 
I don't want excuses it's explanations ! It was another taunt that struck home , but Willoughby again mastered himself grimly . 
Any one of us would have done it , he answered , ignoring the remark . 
I did to him only what he tried to do to others . 
When he saw how good the mine was , he wanted me to help him rook them out of their stock , so that we could get it . 
Simple enough , of course , but they'd been square with me . 
No , I refused but I did accommodate him to the extent of doing him out of his own block . 
So they put in a ruinous report , and every one from whom he'd borrowed a cent just called his loans and foreclosed on him right and left . 
He went down and out and that's all there was to it . 
Nobody else got hurt , and we divided his stock among us . 
Can't you see how it was , Stella ? he asked quietly , and stood awaiting her verdict . 
Yes ! I see how it was ! she flashed . 
It was robbery you can't excuse yourself . 
If she had wished to sting him again , the attempt seemed to become fruitful . 
Excuses ! I make none , do you hear ? he retorted , incensed . 
I ruined him to get him out of your way yes ! oh , you needn't say it ! out of mine , too . 
Oh , well , what's the use ? he muttered , and with morose and glowering eyes slouched through the doorway . 
Mrs. Willoughby lay among the pillows , her arms flung out and her face half hidden by her disordered hair . 
TO BE POOR ! Her mind seized on that as the one incalculable shame that had befallen her on that , rather than on her view of his dishonesty . 
Curiously enough , it was not only the loss of the money itself and the imminent surrender of her ease and luxury and ostentation that dismayed her . 
She was anguished , as well , by the stigma of being poor . 
No , indeed ! there was only a savage resentment in her mind , the inexplicable sense that somehow she had been tricked and cheated , and that he alone was to blame . 
Though she accused him of dishonesty in the Severance affair , the charge was only secondary . 
All that day she kept to her bed , her mind absorbed with the catastrophe that had swept out from under her the unsolid prop of her arrogant money pride . 
For , again , without money what was left ? She showed herself the day following , wan and silent . 
Willoughby was away the news of his failure was public property , and she writhed when she read of it in the daily prints . 
So she left orders with the servants that none was to be admitted . 
Her husband was not so easily evaded . 
He returned , three days later , and , walking straight to her , laid a hand on her shoulder . 
Stella , I'm mighty sorry but if you'll help me , I can get on my feet again . 
Oh , don't bother me ! she retorted , flinging off his hand . 
Willoughby flushed , seemed about to make a bitter retort , and apparently changed his mind . 
Stella , I'm in a good deal of trouble . 
A kind word or two would help . 
But the wife maintained a sullen dumbness , her eyes turned away from him and Willoughby retired , shaking his head . 
At the week end he tried again , hopefully . 
Stella , it's not so bad as we first thought . 
I think we'll save enough to live on maybe enough to keep our home . 
But you'll have to lend a hand . 
She looked up from her packing . 
What do you say ? she demanded , with a rekindled interest , and at the sight of it his eyes lightened . 
Why , if you're willing to go slowly , and put up with a few things , we might be able to do it . 
Humh ! Mrs. Willoughby bent over her trunk again . 
I suppose that means you'd make me a kind of drudge . 
Thank you I prefer the other way . 
The other way ? he inquired , looking at her closely . 
What do you mean by that ? She affected to show her carelessness by smoothing the clothes in the trunk tray . 
Oh , I'm going to take the boy and go away somewhere for a while . 
Willoughby came a step nearer , his brow wrinkled ominously . 
You shall not ! he said , with a slow distinctness , every syllable rapped out decisively . 
Then his anger , righteous enough in its way , got the better of him . 
Listen to me , Stella ! he gritted , clenching his hands beside him . 
I can see clear through you . 
You haven't the nerve to face this down , so you're going to sling me overboard . 
That's it , isn't it ? Well , you sha'n't . 
I've handled you like a fool , these years , and now I'm going to take charge . 
You'll stay here not because of yourself or me but for the boy ! he cried and Mrs. Willoughby arose , quiet , but white . 
No , she answered , clearly we've played this farce too long , Harmon . 
I don't think I'm suited to you , and I'm sure you're not suited to me . 
We married under false ideas of each other . 
Willoughby turned white , too , but , restraining himself , he peered at her from under his heavy brows . 
No , we didn't ! he retorted , solemnly . 
YOU did , but I didn't ! You married me thinking my money would buy you what you wanted . 
I question whether you thought of ME at all . 
But I married you , Stella , knowing exactly what you were , and , since I've paid for it , I intend you shall stick to your bargain . 
Oh , yes , she answered , smiling a little in scorn , it would be like you to call it a bargain . 
But you can't prevent my leaving . 
No perhaps not but I can give you a good , strong argument why you shouldn't . 
If you care to know , I've heard whispers of it already so I'm going to save my boy , if I can . 
Mrs. Willoughby stood with a hand at her throat , gasping the shot had struck home . 
How dare you ? she whispered . 
How dare you , after what I know of you ? You say that , after cheating me into marrying you ? Willoughby tossed his head . 
Do you still refer to Severance ? he inquired , caustically and then his face darkened . 
I'll tell you why I cheated you into marrying me . 
It was because I loved you , I think , he said , and there came a wistfulness into his voice that almost startled her . 
But she put it away scornfully . 
You mean you stole his money to get me ! she retorted , unequivocally . 
I did you're quite right ! he answered quickly . 
It's paid for your extravagances or a part of them . 
It bought you the carriage you wanted your string of pearls too . 
She found herself impugned and called to defend when she had thought only to attack . 
It was a bitter reflection that he had , all along , hidden his contempt , while she had been idly picking flaws in him . 
Oh , yes ! he cried , going on all you looked for or lived for was money . 
I was ashamed , at first , but as you'd seemed to take a fancy to me , I deluded myself into thinking you cared . 
I knew Severance , too . 
He was clever and shrewd , but crooked as a fish hook . 
At the time he was making love to you , there was another . 
But , never mind , I won't talk of that . 
I saw you , and it didn't take long to turn my head . 
He smiled wistfully , as before . 
I'd never seen a woman like you , you know . 
I'd been too busy trying to keep alive . 
But there was this Severance , and oh , well , what's the use ? he muttered again thickly . 
You got your money , and I got the woman I loved . 
But Willoughby's rage seemed to have burned itself out . 
He drifted across the room and reached his hand for the bell pull . 
Put away that trunk , he ordered quietly , facing her I'm going to run things now . 
If you're determined to leave me , you'll have to put it off a while . 
I'm going to save the boy . 
When I'm on my feet again , I'll give you what money you want but there shall be no open scandal . 
Still silent , she was watching him , when the maid came in answer to the bell . 
Help Mrs. Willoughby with these , he said curtly , denoting the half packed trunk we're not going away . 
And in the presence of the servant she dared make no rejoinder . 
Later in the day he looked in again Mrs. Willoughby and the maid were rearranging the room , and the trunk had been whisked away . 
He smiled grimly , and withdrew . 
There could be but two results from a conflict like this she would either scorn him the more or she would come to respect him . 
For days the outcome wavered in the balance . 
They met at the table only she sitting preoccupied , he talking quietly with the boy . 
At the week end he brought her a roll of bills . 
For the house money , he said briefly and when she would not reach out a hand for it , he dropped it in her lap , and went away . 
But that night she entered into the talk at the table , a little quiet , still repressed , and showing her hurt . 
Willoughby , quietly deferential , kept to his part of the conversation exactly as if nothing ugly had occurred between them . 
His bantering with his son was genial and affectionate , and once she thought he tried to include her in this camaraderie . 
The few last shreds of her vanity , however , still waved distressing signals of the hurt , and she evaded it . 
But she felt strangely alone , notwithstanding with an almost unconquerable self pity she reflected on the fair weather friends that had deserted her . 
A little sense of comfort trickled into her heart , though , when she thought of her boy . 
HE , at all events , had not been affected by the rumble of drums that had beaten her out of the worldly camp where once she had commanded . 
That night Willoughby looked in at her , while she sat musing over a book , and when she would not look up at him he went away again . 
A more complete sense of her loneliness came over her as the hours passed in the big , silent house . 
So she laid down her book , and went up stairs to her boy's room . 
Who's there ? he cried , awakening from a doze . 
I came up to see whether you were all right . 
Oh , yes , I am ! he answered , a little perplexed it had not been often that she had found time from her busy affairs for a visit like this . 
The boy took her hand in his and snuggled down in the pillows . 
It's nice to have you , mumsy , he mumbled , comfortably . 
Willoughby , coming home the next evening , heard her talking to the cook . 
You mustn't be so wasteful , Annie . 
Unless you can do better , I shall have to get some one else . 
Her voice was peevish , but to Willoughby it sounded full of inexplicable melody . 
Nor when she carried her complaint to him later , at the dinner table , was he less affected with a secret joy . 
Harmon we'd better take a smaller house . 
I can't do it any longer on what we have . 
You needn't , he answered lightly I can let you have more . 
Things are working out better than I expected . 
Just let me know what you're short at the end of the week . 
That night , too , he came and sat in the room where she was reading . 
He said nothing , and picked up another book . 
But she knew what he wished , and resolutely steeled herself . 
The next night he was there again . 
Good night , dear , he said cheerfully , daring the added word when she arose to go . 
Good night , she answered . 
But on the evening following they talked together , each evading the shoals of past regret , and threading only the safe channels of the commonplace . 
Good night , Stella dear , he said , unaffectedly , as she picked up her things and she answered Good night , Harmon . 
He came close to her , and looked down into her face . 
Stella , he said , quietly Stella , it would make me very happy if you if I might why , kiss you good night . 
Mrs. Willoughby gathered up the remainder of her things , and then slowly shook her head . 
No , we won't talk of that yet ! she answered , and went away up the stairs . 
Willoughby bit his lip , looking silently after her . 
Why , mumsy ! exclaimed the boy , his hand touching his mother's cheek as she leaned over him . 
What's wrong ? She shook her head vehemently in the dark . 
Nothing at all , dear . 
You must go to sleep now . 
The next day , Willoughby , on his return from down town , found her busily superintending the two servants while they cleaned up his room . 
It was an unexpected attention on her part . 
A little while later , leaning over the balusters , she saw Willard whispering to him earnestly . 
Did she , my boy ? she heard the man cry under his breath . 
Why , now , mumsy must just have been a little tired . 
I don't think it was anything else . 
Willoughby's smile seemed enough at the moment to reassure almost any one . 
At dinner his lightness , good nature , geniality became infectious . 
Even Mrs. Willoughby suffered herself to smile at his whimsical jollity with the boy . 
Later there was the little comedy of the good night and then they parted again . 
But Willoughby did not go out as usual . 
It was very late that night when Mrs. Willoughby awoke with the conviction that some one was in her room . 
Her first impulse was to cry out in alarm then , in terror she lay quiet , peering from beneath her half closed lids . 
Across the lighter background of the curtained window a figure moved , big and familiar in its bulk . 
She knew then , and there seemed a greater reason than ever why she should remain quiet . 
Nor was she wrong in her surmise . 
A moment later Willoughby leaned over , and she felt his lips lightly brush her cheek . 
A little sigh followed , and then he was gone , tiptoeing cautiously . 
Mrs. Willoughby sat up in bed , her face in her hands , and reflected in the stillness that presages the storm . 
But loneliness no longer pained her the solitude had become suddenly peopled with vivid , poignant regrets , shouting loudly their indictment and their appeal . 
Mrs. Willoughby had become sincere at last . 
XXIII No. JULY The Painter of Diana of the Tides pages By WALTER PRICHARD EATON Author of The American Stage of To day , etc . 
Given nearly three hundred square feet of blank wall space , and it takes something of an artist to fill it up with interesting paint . 
Probably you would not pick a miniature painter for the task . 
He works , likewise , in silver point , that delicate and difficult medium he draws pastel illustrations for children's fairy tales he works in portraiture with red chalk or oils . 
John Elliott was born on Good Friday , , one of a famous Scottish border family . 
His residence is now in Boston , Massachusetts , at the home of his mother in law . 
Robert Louis Stevenson had Elliott blood in his veins . 
Parts of me , he once wrote , have shouted the slogan of the Elliotts in the debatable land . 
The Elliotts were a wild lot , and some of them did not escape the hangman . 
Their family tree appears to have been the gallows . 
If you press him hard , he will confess that he began life by studying for the stage , and almost played Romeo , before painting drew him away . 
Reaching Italy , he aspired to enter the studio of Don Jose di Villegas , now director of the Prado Museum in Madrid , but then in Rome . 
But Jack Elliott is Scotch . 
He would teach the master English , in return for instruction in painting . 
That is why I keep you , said Villegas you have retained your own manner and choice of subjects . 
So the pupil stayed on in Rome for five years , sharing his studio later with Aristide Sartorio , now a leading Italian painter . 
Here , in the Via Flaminia , he painted his first important mural decoration , for the dining room of Mrs. Potter Palmer's Chicago Lake Shore mansion . 
This work , called The Vintage , is decorously inebriate , a vinous riot of little cupids . 
In , he went back to Rome to execute a commission for a huge ceiling piece for the Boston Public Library . 
But the room has been recently readjusted . 
out of the mists of the past into the illumination of the present . 
The triumph of the picture is its handling of the problem of light . 
It appears in unexpected places , grows where only shadow seemed to be , and surprises you anew each time you look up . 
It is a true decorative painting . 
Indeed , he made her the model for the second hour in the Boston ceiling , the figure next to the leader in the procession . 
Three studies of her head for this figure , well known from reproduction , are now in the possession of Thomas W. Lawson . 
In Rome the Elliotts occupied for some time the apartments of Mrs. Elliott's cousin , the late F. Marion Crawford , in the Palazzo Santa Croce . 
In writing With the Immortals , Mr. Crawford had collected many death masks , including one of Dante , which fascinated Mr. Elliott . 
Two pictures of Dante in Exile were the result . 
One of them now hangs in the living room of Queen Margherita of Italy , the other in the house of Mrs. J. Montgomery Sears of Boston . 
A third pastel study was made , an unfinished head of the poet , and thrown into a wastebasket . 
By a curious fatality , it is now better known than either of the paintings . 
Mrs. Elliott rescued the drawing , smoothed it out , framed it , and was allowed to hang it in her chamber . 
Yet few who possess the reproduction know anything of the artist . 
Mr. Elliott , receiving his commission to do a great mural painting for the new National Museum in Washington , again went to Rome four years ago . 
Diana of the Tides was completed and signed on Christmas day , . 
Three days later came the awful news of the Messina earthquake , and the Hon . 
Lloyd Griscom , then American Ambassador to Italy , at once called for volunteers for his relief expedition . 
John Elliott was among the first to respond . 
He went south officially as an interpreter . 
Actually , he played the part of stevedore as well for ten days on the relief ship . 
I have dropped my last knuckle down the hold this morning , he wrote back , and I have only two fingers left that I can wash . 
Most of the lumber had been cut for the erection of small houses , and the door and window frames were stock pieces . 
He helped lay out the streets in such a way as to preserve all the trees possible . 
So , in four months , he designed and superintended the erection of houses , churches , schools , and hospitals for a town of several thousand inhabitants . 
He laid down the T square and the hammer for a piece of pastel crayon . 
But he had triumphantly refuted the scorn of the practical man for the artist . 
He had shown the stuff that dreams are really made of . 
Incidentally , he had won for himself a decoration from the King of Italy , and the medal of the American Red Cross Association . 
This charm of illumination is unfortunately lost in reproduction . 
Mr. Elliott has made symbolic use of Diana , the Moon Goddess . 
in a way obvious enough , but hitherto , oddly , untried by artists . 
It is a way singularly appropriate in a museum of scientific character a combination of ancient myth and modern science . 
As the Moon Goddess , Diana controls the four tides , which , in the shape of horses , draw her erect and jubilant figure on a great seashell . 
They are without guiding reins and harness , to suggest the unseen channels of her sway . 
If the reader will note an advancing wave , he will see that , just before the crest curls over , the foam is tossed back . 
Then the wave bows and breaks . 
So the nearest horse raises his head slightly , the next higher , the third tosses his head back , and the last has bowed his neck . 
In their motion and grouped attitudes . 
as they gallop up on the beach , is the rhythm of an oncoming wave . 
Farther than that Mr. Elliott wisely did not go . 
Let them suggest more obviously a wave , he says , and you have a trick picture . 
After a while , you wouldn't see anything in it but the trick . 
The wave motion is repeated on a comber out at sea , and , to the left , against a rock on the shore . 
Diana stands behind the horses , against the great , golden moon a radiant halo . 
She has just unloosed an arrow from her bow . 
Her draperies are of indefinite color , the rose and lilac and amber of sunset . 
Her face , it will be noted , though she stands against the moon , is lighted from in front . 
In that fact lies the secret of the illumination . 
For this picture was supposedly painted at that one Byronic hour of the year when The sun was setting opposite the moon . 
While this canvas was being unpacked in Washington last winter , Mr. Elliott was exhibiting in Boston his portrait of his mother in law , Mrs. Julia Ward Howe . 
She is now more than ninety years old . 
When the sittings began , Mrs. Howe had just recovered from an illness , and could read or talk only for brief periods . 
Mostly she sat looking out of her window at a bird which had a nest in a nearby tree . 
She is dressed in light green . 
The background is an indistinguishable brown . 
Her eyes have that very delicate light blue of advanced age , wistful yet prophetic . 
The skin , too , has the rare ivory delicacy of old age , of old age gently dealt with and protected . 
The light is unobtrusive yet luminous morning sunshine . 
The picture is utterly simple the more so for its touch of incompleteness . 
The masses are broad , artless . 
It is tender , reverential , a sweet and solemn glorification of old age , and of the old age of a distinguished spirit . 
But I was not painting a president of the New England Woman's Club , but the author of The Battle Hymn of the Republic . 
Queen Margherita of Italy made a truer comment when she saw the portrait in Mr. Elliott's studio in Rome . 
It was for her he made his well known silver point portrait of the late King Humbert , which she carries with her on all journeys . 
It has , indeed the boldness of line inseparable from good silver point drawing , where a stroke once laid on is indelible and no working over is possible . 
When Diana of the Tides was exhibited in Rome in February , , the Queen was one of the first visitors . 
The Queen , seeing the picture , expressed delight and volunteered to tell her son , King Victor Emmanuel , about it . 
A few days later , at seven thirty in the morning , there came a knocking at the door , with the announcement , A message from the King . 
The King , said the messenger , would follow in an hour . 
Presumably there was some hurry of preparation in the Elliott family . 
He remained half an hour . 
Being fond of horses , he found much in the picture genuinely to interest him . 
The artist accompanied the monarch to the door of his car , where he thanked him for the honor of his visit . 
Not at all , said the King , in his excellent English . 
My mother told me to come . 
Which shows , at least , that the Fifth Commandment is honored in Italy . 
The twenty four pastel drawings made to illustrate Mrs. Anderson's fairy tale , The Great Sea Horse , were also exhibited in America last winter . 
Made immediately after Mr. Elliott's heartbreaking labor on the rocking soil of Sicily , they are none the less quiet , childish , and fanciful in their charm . 
The grim , grotesque old fellow is carefully drawn , with a fine rhythm of line in the seated limbs . 
His bulk dwarfs the headland , and his head and shoulders grow blue and pale in the sky . 
One questions why the ashes do not fall farther out to sea they seem to lie in the shallow tide water on the beach . 
Barring this note of smallness , the picture is a true grotesque in miniature . 
Mr. Elliott also works in genuine miniature . 
He has painted several portraits of Mrs. Potter Palmer , the Chanler sisters of New York , and many more . 
He has painted landscapes , as well . 
Professor Barrett Wendell possesses a charming example . 
tell against the high purple banks across the lake . 
The god is making the best of his loss making music of it , in fact . 
He was the eternal boy , before Mr. Barrie rediscovered him and surnamed him Peter . 
And there is something of the eternal boy about John Elliott . 
It is the temperament eternally boyish and buoyant , which is on the side of sweetness and light . 
Perhaps it is not what the world means by the artistic temperament . 
But it is the temperament of the true artist . 
Never do a pot boiler , said Mr. Elliott to a young painter the other day . 
Let one of your best things go to boil the pot . 
XXIII No. AUGUST THE HEATHEN page By JACK LONDON Author of The Call of the Wild , Martin Eden , etc . 
I met him first in a hurricane . 
And though we had been through the hurricane on the same schooner , it was not until the schooner had gone to pieces under us that I first laid eyes on him . 
The pearling season in the Paumotus was over , and all hands were returning to Tahiti . 
The six of us cabin passengers were pearl buyers . 
It had been a prosperous season . 
Not one of us had cause for complaint , nor one of the eighty five deck passengers either . 
All had done well , and all were looking forward to a rest off and a good time in Papeete . 
Of course the Petite Jeanne was overloaded . 
he was only seventy tons , and she had no right to carry a tithe of the mob she had on board . 
Beneath her hatches she was crammed and jammed with pearl shell and copra . 
Even the trade room was packed full of shell . 
It was a miracle that the sailors could work her . 
There was no moving about the decks . 
They simply climbed back and forth along the rails . 
In the night time they walked upon the sleepers , who carpeted the deck , two deep , I'll swear . 
Oh , and there were pigs and chickens on deck , and sacks of yams , while every conceivable place was festooned with strings of drinking cocoanuts and bunches of bananas . 
It promised to be a messy passage , even if we did make it in the two or three days that would have been required if the southeast trades had been blowing fresh . 
But they weren't blowing fresh . 
After the first five hours , the trade died away in a dozen gasping fans . 
The second day a man died , an Easter Islander , one of the best divers that season in the lagoon . 
Smallpox , that is what it was , though how smallpox could come on board when there had been no known cases ashore when we left Rangiroa is beyond me . 
There it was , though , smallpox , a man dead , and three others down on their backs . 
There was nothing to be done . 
We could not segregate the sick , nor could we care for them . 
We were packed like sardines . 
There was nothing to do but die that is , there was nothing to do after the night that followed the first death . 
On that night , the mate , the supercargo , the Polish Jew , and four native divers sneaked away in the large whaleboat . 
They were never heard of again . 
In the morning the captain promptly scuttled the remaining boats , and there we were . 
That day there were two deaths the following day three then it jumped to eight . 
It was curious to see how we took it . 
The natives , for instance , fell into a condition of dumb , stolid fear . 
The captain Oudouse , his name was , a Frenchman became very nervous and voluble . 
The German , the two Americans , and myself bought up all the Scotch whisky and proceeded to drink . 
The theory was beautiful namely , if we kept ourselves soaked in alcohol , every smallpox germ that came into contact with us would immediately be scorched to a cinder . 
And the theory worked , though I must confess that neither Captain Oudouse nor Ah Choon was attacked by the disease either . 
The Frenchman did not drink at all , while Ah Choon restricted himself to one drink daily . 
We had a week of it , and then the whisky gave out . 
It was just as well , or I shouldn't be alive now . 
It took a sober man to pull through what followed , as you will agree when I mention the little fact that only two men did pull through . 
The other man was the Heathen at least that was what I heard Captain Oudouse call him at the moment I first became aware of the Heathen's existence . 
It was at the end of the week that I happened to glance at the barometer that hung in the cabin companion way . 
Its normal register in the Paumotus was . 
, and it was quite customary to see it vacillate between . 
but to see it , as I saw it , down to . 
, was sufficient to chill the blood of any pearl buyer in Oceania . 
I called Captain Oudouse's attention to it , only to be informed that he had watched it going down for several hours . 
There was little to do , but that little he did very well , considering the circumstances . 
He took off the light sails , shortened right down to storm canvas , spread life lines , and waited for the wind . 
His mistake lay in what he did after the wind came . 
We were in the direct path . 
I could see that by the steady increase of the wind and the equally steady fall of the barometer . 
I wanted to turn and run with the wind on the port quarter until the barometer ceased falling , and then to heave to . 
We argued till he was reduced to hysteria , but budge he would not . 
The worst of it was that I could not get the rest of the pearl buyers to back me up . 
She had fallen off , as vessels do when hove to , and the first sea made a clean breach . 
It was a human torrent . 
They came head first , feet first , sidewise , rolling over and over , twisting , squirming , writhing , and crumpling up . 
Now and again one or another caught a grip on a stanchion or a rope , but the weight of the bodies behind tore such grips loose . 
I saw what was coming , sprang on top the cabin , and from there into the mainsail itself . 
Ah Choon and one of the Americans tried to follow me , but I was one jump ahead of them . 
The American was swept away and over the stern like a piece of chaff . 
Ah Choon caught a spoke of the wheel and swung in behind it . 
But a strapping Rarotonga vahine she must have weighed two hundred and fifty brought up against him and got an arm around his neck . 
He clutched the Kanaka steersman with his other hand . 
And just at that moment the schooner flung down to starboard . 
The rush of bodies and the sea that was coming along the port runway between the cabin and the rail , turned abruptly and poured to starboard . 
Away they went , vahine , Ah Choon , and steersman and I swear I saw Ah Choon grin at me with philosophic resignation as he cleared the rail and went under . 
woman The third sea the biggest of the three did not do so much damage . 
By the time it arrived , nearly everybody was in the rigging . 
On deck perhaps a dozen gasping , half drowned , and half stunned wretches were rolling about or attempting to crawl into safety . 
They went by the board , as did the wreckage of the two remaining boats . 
The other pearl buyers and myself , between seas , managed to get about fifteen women and children into the cabin and battened down . 
Little good it did the poor creatures in the end . 
Wind ? Out of all my experiences I could not have believed it possible for the wind to blow as it did . 
There is no describing it . 
How can one describe a nightmare ? It was the same way with that wind . 
It tore the clothes off our bodies . 
I say TORE THEM OFF , and I mean it . 
I am not asking you to believe it . 
I am merely telling something that I saw and felt . 
There are times when I do not believe it myself . 
I went through it , and that is enough . 
One could not face that wind and live . 
It was a monstrous thing , and the most monstrous thing about it was that it increased and continued to increase . 
Imagine countless millions and billions of tons of sand . 
Imagine this sand tearing along at ninety , a hundred , a hundred and twenty , or any other number of miles per hour . 
Imagine , further , this sand to be invisible , impalpable , yet to retain all the weight and density of sand . 
Do all this , and you may get a vague inkling of what that wind was like . 
Perhaps sand is not the right comparison . 
Consider it mud , invisible , impalpable , but heavy as mud . 
Nay , it goes beyond that . 
Consider every molecule of air to be a mud bank in itself . 
Then try to imagine the multitudinous impact of mud banks no , it is beyond me . 
Language may be adequate to express the ordinary conditions of life , but it cannot possibly express any of the conditions of so enormous a blast of wind . 
It would have been better had I stuck by my original intention of not attempting a description . 
I will say this much The sea , which had risen at first , was beaten down by that wind . 
Of course , our canvas had gone long before . 
But Captain Oudouse had on the Petite Jeanne something I had never before seen on a South Sea schooner a sea anchor . 
It was a conical canvas bag , the mouth of which was kept open by a huge hoop of iron . 
The sea anchor was bridled something like a kite , so that it bit into the water as a kite bites into the air but with a difference . 
The sea anchor remained just under the surface of the ocean , in a perpendicular position . 
A long line , in turn , connected it with the schooner . 
As a result , the Petite Jeanne rode bow on to the wind and to what little sea there was . 
The situation really would have been favorable , had we not been in the path of the storm . 
That was what fixed us . 
The blow we received was an absolute lull . 
There was not a breath of air . 
The effect on one was sickening . 
Remember that for hours we had been at terrific muscular tension , withstanding the awful pressure of that wind . 
And then , suddenly , the pressure was removed . 
I know that I felt as though I were about to expand , to fly apart in all directions . 
It seemed as if every atom composing my body was repelling every other atom , and was on the verge of rushing off irresistibly into space . 
But that lasted only for a moment . 
In the absence of the wind and its pressure , the sea rose . 
It jumped , it leaped , it soared straight toward the clouds . 
Remember , from every point of the compass that inconceivable wind was blowing in toward the center of calm . 
The result was that the seas sprang up from every point of the compass . 
There was no wind to check them . 
They popped up like corks released from the bottom of a pail of water . 
There was no system to them , no stability . 
They were hollow , maniacal seas . 
They were eighty feet high at the least . 
They were not seas at all . 
They resembled no sea a man had ever seen . 
They were splashes , monstrous splashes , that is all , splashes that were eighty feet high . 
Eighty ! They were more than eighty . 
They went over our mastheads . 
They were spouts , explosions . 
They fell anywhere , anyhow . 
They jostled one another , they collided . 
They rushed together and collapsed upon one another , or fell apart like a thousand waterfalls all at once . 
It was no ocean any man ever dreamed of , that hurricane center . 
It was confusion thrice confounded . 
It was a hell pit of sea water gone mad . 
The Petite Jeanne ? I don't know . 
The Heathen told me afterward that he did not know . 
She was literally torn apart , ripped wide open , beaten into a pulp , smashed into kindling wood , annihilated . 
When I came to , I was in the water , swimming automatically , though I was about two thirds drowned . 
How I got there I had no recollection . 
I remembered seeing the Petite Jeanne fly to pieces at what must have been the instant that my own consciousness was buffeted out of me . 
But there I was , with nothing to do but make the best of it , and in that best there was little promise . 
The wind was blowing again , the sea was much smaller and more regular , and I knew that I had passed through the center . 
Fortunately , there were no sharks about . 
The hurricane had dissipated the ravenous horde that had surrounded the death ship . 
It was about midday when the Petite Jeanne went to pieces , and it must have been two hours afterward when I picked up with one of her hatch covers . 
Thick rain was driving at the time , and it was the merest chance that flung me and the hatch cover together . 
A short length of line was trailing from the rope handle , and I knew that I was good for a day at least , if the sharks did not return . 
The rain had ceased , and wind and sea were easing marvelously . 
Not twenty feet away from me , on another hatch cover , were Captain Oudouse and the Heathen . 
They were fighting over the possession of the cover at least the Frenchman was . 
Paien noir ! I heard him scream , and at the same time I saw him kick the Kanaka . 
Now , Captain Oudouse had lost all his clothes except his shoes , and they were heavy brogans . 
It was a cruel blow , for it caught the Heathen on the mouth and the point of the chin , half stunning him . 
I looked for him to retaliate , but he contented himself with swimming about forlornly , a safe ten feet away . 
Whenever a fling of the sea threw him closer , the Frenchman , hanging on with his hands , kicked out at him with both feet . 
Also , at the moment of delivering each kick , he called the Kanaka a black heathen . 
For two centimes I'd come over there and drown you , you white beast ! I yelled . 
The only reason I did not go was that I felt too tired . 
The very thought of the effort to swim over was nauseating . 
So I called to the Kanaka to come to me , and proceeded to share the hatch cover with him . 
also he told me that he was a native of Bora Bora , the most westerly of the Society Group . 
And that was how Otoo and I first came together . 
He was all sweetness and gentleness , a love creature though he stood nearly six feet tall and was muscled like a gladiator . 
He was no fighter , but he was also no coward . 
He had the heart of a lion , and in the years that followed I have seen him run risks that I would never dream of taking . 
What I mean is that , while he was no fighter , and while he always avoided precipitating a row , he never ran away from trouble when it started . 
And it was 'Ware shoal ! when once Otoo went into action . 
I shall never forget what he did to Bill King . 
It occurred in German Samoa . 
Bill King was hailed the champion heavyweight of the American navy . 
He was a big brute of a man , a veritable gorilla , one of those hard hitting , rough housing chaps , and clever with his fists as well . 
He picked the quarrel , and he kicked Otoo twice and struck him once before Otoo felt it to be necessary to fight . 
Otoo knew nothing of scientific boxing . 
He was merely a man handler , and Bill King was something like three months in recovering from the bit of man handling he received that afternoon on Apia beach . 
But I am running ahead of my yarn . 
We shared the hatch cover between us . 
We took turn and turn about , one lying flat on the cover and resting , while the other , submerged to the neck , merely held on with his hands . 
For three days and nights , spell and spell , on the cover and in the water , we drifted over the ocean . 
Toward the last I was delirious most of the time , and there were times , too , when I heard Otoo babbling and raving in his native tongue . 
Our continuous immersion prevented us from dying of thirst , though the sea water and the sunshine gave us the prettiest imaginable combination of salt pickle and sunburn . 
In the end , Otoo saved MY life for I came to , lying on the beach twenty feet from the water , sheltered from the sun by a couple of cocoanut leaves . 
No one but Otoo could have dragged me there and stuck up the leaves for shade . 
He was lying beside me . 
I went off again , and the next time I came around it was cool and starry night and Otoo was pressing a drinking cocoanut to my lips . 
We were the sole survivors of the Petite Jeanne . 
Captain Oudouse must have succumbed to exhaustion , for several days later his hatch cover drifted ashore without him . 
Otoo and I lived with the natives of the atoll for a week , when we were rescued by a French cruiser and taken to Tahiti . 
In the meantime , however , we had performed the ceremony of exchanging names . 
In the South Seas such a ceremony binds two men closer together than blood brothership . 
The initiative had been mine , and Otoo was rapturously delighted when I suggested it . 
It is well , he said , in Tahitian . 
For we have been mates together for three days on the lips of Death . 
But Death stuttered , I smiled . 
It was a brave deed you did , master , he replied , and Death was not vile enough to speak . 
Why do you master' me ? I demanded , with a show of hurt feelings . 
To you I am Otoo . 
To me you are Charley . 
And between you and me , forever and forever , you shall be Charley and I shall be Otoo . 
It is the way of the custom . 
Yes , master , he answered , his eyes luminous and soft with joy . 
There you go ! I cried indignantly . 
What does it matter what my lips utter ? he argued . 
They are only my lips . 
But I shall think OTOO always . 
Whenever I think of myself I shall think of you . 
Whenever men call me by name I shall think of you . 
And beyond the sky and beyond the stars always and forever you shall be Otoo to me . 
Is it well , master ? I hid my smile and answered that it was well . 
I remained ashore to recuperate , and he went on in a cutter to his own island , Bora Bora . 
Six weeks later he was back . 
I was surprised , for he had told me of his wife and said that he was returning to her and would give over sailing on far voyages . 
Where do you go , master ? he asked , after our first greetings . 
It was a hard question . 
To all the world , was my answer . 
All the world , all the sea , and all the islands that are in the sea . 
I will go with you , he said simply . 
I never had a brother , but from what I have seen of other men's brothers I doubt if any man ever had one who was to him what Otoo was to me . 
He was brother , and father and mother as well . 
And this I know I lived a straighter and a better man because of Otoo . 
I had to live straight in Otoo's eyes . 
Because of him I dared not tarnish myself . 
His pride in me entered into me until it became one of the major rules in my personal code to do nothing that would diminish that pride of his . 
Naturally , I did not learn right away what his feelings were toward me . 
For seventeen years we were together . 
For seventeen years he was at my shoulder , watching while I slept , nursing me through fever and wounds , aye , and receiving wounds in fighting for me . 
He signed on the same ships with me , and together we ranged the Pacific from Hawaii to Sydney Head and from Torres Strait to the Galapagos . 
We blackbirded from the New hebrides and the Line Islands over to the westward , clear through the Louisiades , New Britain , New Ireland , and New Hanover . 
We were wrecked three times in the Gilberts , in the Santa Cruz group , and in the Fijis . 
And we traded and salved wherever a dollar promised in the way of pearl and pearl shell , copra , beche de mer , hawkbill turtle shell , and stranded wrecks . 
It began in Papeete , immediately after his announcement that he was going with me over all the sea and the islands in the midst thereof . 
There was a club in those days in Papeete , where the pearlers , traders , captains , and South Sea adventurers foregathered . 
The play ran high and the drink ran high , and I am very much afraid that I kept later hours than were becoming or proper . 
No matter what the hour was when I left the club , there was Otoo waiting to see me safely home . 
Then I told him flatly I stood in need of no wet nursing . 
After that I did not see him when I came out of the club . 
Quite by accident , a week or so later , I discovered that he still saw me home , lurking across the street among the shadows of the mango trees . 
What could I do ? I know what I did do . 
Insensibly I began to keep better hours . 
On wet and stormy nights , in the thick of the folly and the fun , the thought would come to me of Otoo keeping his dreary vigil under the dripping mangoes . 
Truly , he made me a better man . 
Yet he was not strait laced . 
And he knew nothing of common Christian morality . 
All the people on Bora Bora were Christians . 
But he was a heathen , the only unbeliever on the island , a gross materialist who believed that when he died he was dead . 
He believed merely in fair play and square dealing . 
Petty meanness , in his code , was almost as serious as wanton homicide , and I am sure that he respected a murderer more than a man given to small practices . 
Concerning me , personally , he objected to my doing anything that was hurtful to me . 
He was an ardent gambler himself . 
But late hours , he explained , were bad for one's health . 
He had seen men who did not take care of themselves die of fever . 
He was no teetotaler , and welcomed a stiff nip any time when it was wet work in the boats . 
On the other hand , he believed in liquor in moderation . 
He had seen many men killed or disgraced by squareface or Scotch . 
Otoo had my welfare always at heart . 
He thought ahead for me , weighed my plans and took a greater interest in them than I did myself . 
I did not know he was a knave . 
Nor did any white man in Papeete . 
Neither did Otoo know but he saw how thick we were getting and found out for me , and that without my asking . 
At first , I am free to confess , I resented Otoo's poking his nose into my business . 
But I knew that he was wholly unselfish , and soon I had to acknowledge his wisdom and discretion . 
He had his eyes open always to my main chance , and he was both keen sighted and far sighted . 
In time he became my counselor , until he knew more of my business than I did myself . 
He really had my interest at heart more than I did . 
Mine was the magnificent carelessness of youth , for I preferred romance to dollars , and adventure to a comfortable billet with all night in . 
So it was well that I had some one to look out for me . 
I know that if it had not been for Otoo , I should not be here to day . 
Of numerous instances , let me give one . 
I had had some experience in blackbirding before I went pearling in the Paumotus . 
Otoo and I were on the beach in Samoa we really were on the beach and hard aground when my chance came to go as a recruiter on a blackbird brig . 
Otoo signed on before the mast , and for the next half dozen years , in as many ships , we knocked about the wildest portions of Melanesia . 
Otoo saw to it that he always pulled stroke oar in my boat . 
Our custom , in recruiting labor , was to land the recruiter on the beach . 
The covering boat always lay on its oars several hundred feet off shore , while the recruiter's boat , also lying on its oars , kept afloat on the edge of the beach . 
The boat's crew was also armed , the Sniders concealed under canvas flaps that ran the length of the gunwales . 
While I was busy arguing and persuading the woolly headed cannibals to come and labor on the Queensland plantations Otoo kept watch . 
And often and often his low voice warned me of suspicious actions and impending treachery . 
Sometimes it was the quick shot from his rifle , knocking a nigger over , that was the first warning I received . 
And in my rush to the boat his hand was always there to jerk me flying aboard . 
Once , I remember , on Santa Anna , the boat grounded just as the trouble began . 
The covering boat was dashing to our assistance , but the several score of savages would have wiped us out before it arrived . 
Otoo took a flying leap ashore , dug both hands into the trade goods , and scattered tobacco , beads , tomahawks , knives , and calicoes in all directions . 
This was too much for the woolly heads . 
While they scrambled for the treasures , the boat was shoved clear and we were aboard and forty feet away . 
And I got thirty recruits off that very beach in the next four hours . 
The particular instance I have in mind was on Malaita , the most savage island in the easterly Solomons . 
The fellow who captured the head would receive the whole collection . 
As I say , they appeared very friendly , and this day I was fully a hundred yards down the beach from the boat . 
Otoo had cautioned me , and , as usual when I did not heed him , I came to grief . 
The first thing I knew a cloud of spears sailed out of the mangrove swamp at me . 
At least a dozen were sticking into me . 
I started to run , but tripped over one that was fast in my calf and went down . 
The woolly heads made a run for me , each with a long handled , fantail tomahawk with which to hack off my head . 
They were so eager for the prize that they got in one another's way . 
In the confusion I avoided several hacks by throwing myself right and left on the sand . 
Then Otoo arrived Otoo the man handler . 
In some way he had got hold of a heavy war club , and at close quarters it was a far more efficient weapon than a rifle . 
He was right in the thick of them , so that they could not spear him , while their tomahawks seemed worse than useless . 
He was fighting for me , and he was in a true Berserker rage . 
The way he handled that club was amazing . 
Their skulls squashed like overripe oranges . 
It was not until he had driven them back , picked me up in his arms , and started to run , that he received his first wounds . 
He arrived in the boat with four spear thrusts , got his Winchester , and with it got a man for every shot . 
Then we pulled aboard the schooner and doctored up . 
Seventeen years we were together . 
I should to day be a supercargo , a recruiter , or a memory , if it had not been for him . 
You spend your money , and you go out and get more , he said , one day . 
It is easy to get money , now . 
But when you get old , your money will be spent and you will not be able to go out and get more . 
I have studied the way of white men . 
On the beaches are many old men who were young once and who could get money just like you . 
Now they are old , and they have nothing , and they wait about for the young men like you to come ashore and buy drinks for them . 
The black boy is a slave on the plantations . 
He gets twenty dollars a year . 
The overseer does not work hard . 
He rides a horse and watches the black boy work . 
He gets twelve hundred dollars a year . 
I am a sailor on the schooner . 
I get fifteen dollars a month . 
That is because I am a good sailor . 
The captain has a double awning and drinks beer out of long bottles . 
I have never seen him haul a rope or pull an oar . 
He gets one hundred and fifty dollars a month . 
Master , I think it would be very good for you to know navigation . 
Otoo spurred me on to it . 
He sailed with me as second mate on my first schooner , and he was far prouder of my command than was I myself . 
Later on it was The captain is well paid , master , but the ship is in his keeping and he is never free from the burden . 
It is the owner who is better paid , the owner who sits ashore with many servants and turns his money over . 
True , but a schooner costs five thousand dollars an old schooner at that , I objected . 
I should be an old man before I saved five thousand dollars . 
There be short ways for white men to make money , he went on , pointing ashore at the cocoanut fringed beach . 
We were in the Solomons at the time , picking up a cargo of ivory nuts along the east coast of Guadalcanar . 
Between this river mouth and the next it is two miles , he said . 
The flat land runs far back . 
It is worth nothing now . 
Next year who knows ! or the year after men will pay much money for that land . 
Big steamers can lie close up . 
Then you place the deed with the commissioner , and the next year , or the year after , you sell and become the owner of a ship . 
I followed his lead , and his words came true , though in three years instead of two . 
Next came the grass lands deal on Guadalcanar twenty thousand acres on a governmental nine hundred and ninety nine years' lease at a nominal sum . 
I owned the lease for precisely ninety days , when I sold it to the Moonlight Soap crowd for half a fortune . 
Always it was Otoo who looked ahead and saw the opportunity . 
He was responsible for the salving of the Doncaster bought in at auction for five hundred dollars and clearing fifteen thousand after every expense was paid . 
He led me into the Savaii plantation and the cocoa venture on Upolu . 
We did not go seafaring so much as in the old days now . 
I was too well off . 
I could not get him to spend money . 
There was no way of repaying him except with love , and God knows he got that in full measure from all of us . 
The children worshiped him , and if he had been spoilable my wife would surely have been his undoing . 
The children ! He really was the one who showed them the way of their feet in the world practical . 
He began by teaching them to walk . 
He sat up with them when they were sick . 
One by one , when they were scarcely toddlers , he took them down to the lagoon and made them into amphibians . 
He taught them more than I ever knew of the habits of fish and the ways of catching them . 
In the bush it was the same thing . 
At seven , Tom knew more woodcraft than I ever dreamed existed . 
At six , Mary went over the Sliding Rock without a quiver and I have seen strong men balk at that feat . 
And when Frank had just turned six he could bring up shillings from the bottom in three fathoms . 
I say one of OUR schooners , though legally , at the time , they belonged to me . 
I struggled long with him to enter into partnership . 
We have been partners from the day the Petite Jeanne went down , he said at last . 
But if your heart so wishes , then shall we become partners by the law . 
I have no work to do , yet are my expenses large . 
I drink and eat and smoke in plenty it costs much , I know . 
I do not pay for the playing of billiards , for I play on your table but still the money goes . 
Fishing on the reef is only a rich man's pleasure . 
It is shocking , the cost of hooks and cotton line . 
Yes , it is necessary that we be partners by the law . 
I shall get it from the head clerk in the office . 
So the papers were made out and recorded . 
A year later I was compelled to complain . 
Charley , said I , you are a wicked old fraud , a miserly skinflint , a miserable land crab . 
Behold , your share for the year in all our partnership has been thousands of dollars . 
The head clerk has given me this paper . 
It says that during the year you have drawn just eighty seven dollars and twenty cents . 
Is there any owing me ? he asked anxiously . 
I tell you thousands and thousands , I answered . 
His face brightened as with an immense relief . 
It is well , he said . 
See that the head clerk keeps good account of it . 
When I want it , I shall want it , and there must not be a cent missing . 
If there is , he added fiercely , after a pause , it must come out of the clerk's wages . 
And all the time , as I afterward learned , his will , drawn up by Carruthers and making me sole beneficiary , lay in the American consul's safe . 
But the end came as the end must come to all human associations . 
We were lying at Savo , having run in to trade for curios . 
Now Savo is alive with sharks . 
The custom of the woolly heads of burying their dead in the sea did not tend to discourage the sharks from making the adjacent waters a hang out . 
It was my luck to be coming aboard in a tiny , overloaded , native canoe , when the thing capsized . 
There were four woolly heads and myself in it , or rather , hanging to it . 
The schooner was a hundred yards away . 
I was just hailing for a boat when one of the woolly heads began to scream . 
Holding on to the end of the canoe , both he and that portion of the canoe were dragged under several times . 
Then he loosed his clutch and disappeared . 
A shark had got him . 
The three remaining niggers tried to climb out of the water upon the bottom of the canoe . 
I yelled and cursed and struck at the nearest with my fist , but it was no use . 
They were in a blind funk . 
The canoe could barely have supported one of them . 
Under the three it up ended and rolled sidewise , throwing them back into the water . 
I abandoned the canoe and started to swim toward the schooner , expecting to be picked up by the boat before I got there . 
The screams of the men who stayed by the canoe informed us that they were taken . 
I was peering into the water when I saw a big shark pass directly beneath me . 
He was fully sixteen feet in length . 
I saw the whole thing . 
He was carried along in this fashion for several hundred feet , when he was dragged beneath the surface . 
I swam doggedly on , hoping that that was the last unattached shark . 
Whether it was one that had attacked the natives earlier , or whether it was one that had made a good meal elsewhere , I do not know . 
At any rate , he was not in such haste as the others . 
I could not swim so rapidly now , for a large part of my effort was devoted to keeping track of him . 
I was watching him when he made his first attack . 
By good luck I got both hands on his nose , and , though his momentum nearly shoved me under , I managed to keep him off . 
He veered clear and began circling about again . 
A second time I escaped him by the same maneuver . 
The third rush was a miss on both sides . 
By this time I was played out and gave up hope . 
The schooner was still two hundred feet away . 
My face was in the water and I was watching him maneuver for another attempt , when I saw a brown body pass between us . 
Swim for the schooner , master , he said , and he spoke gayly , as though the affair was a mere lark . 
The shark is my brother . 
I obeyed , swimming slowly on , while Otoo swam about me , keeping always between me and the shark , foiling his rushes and encouraging me . 
The davit tackle carried away , and they are rigging the falls , he explained a minute or so later , and then went under to head off another attack . 
By the time the schooner was thirty feet away I was about done for . 
They were heaving lines at us from on board , but these continually fell short . 
The shark , finding that it was receiving no hurt , had become bolder . 
Several times it nearly got me , but each time Otoo was there just the moment before it was too late . 
Of course Otoo could have saved himself any time . 
But he stuck by me . 
Good by , Charley , I'm finished , I just managed to gasp . 
I knew that the end had come and that the next moment I should throw up my hands and go down . 
But Otoo laughed in my face , saying I will show you a new trick . 
I will make that shark damn sick . 
He dropped in behind me , where the shark was preparing to come at me . 
A little more to the left , he next called out . 
There is a line there on the water . 
To the left , master , to the left . 
I changed my course and struck out blindly . 
I was by that time barely conscious . 
As my hand closed on the line I heard an exclamation from on board . 
There was no sign of Otoo . 
The next instant he broke surface . 
Both hands were off at the wrist , the stumps spouting blood . 
Otoo , he called softly , and I could see in his gaze the love that thrilled in his voice . 
Then , and then only , at the very last of all our years , he called me by that name . 
Good by , Otoo , he called . 
Then he was dragged under , and I was hauled aboard , where I fainted in the captain's arms . 
And so passed Otoo , who saved me and made me a man , and who saved me in the end . 
If Jehovah be from his high place watching every sparrow fall , not least in His Kingdom shall be Otoo , the one heathen of Bora Bora . 
And if there be no place for him in that Kingdom , then will I have none of it . 
XXIII No. AUGUST THE QUESTION HOW ? page By WILLIAM HANNA THOMSON , M. D. , LL . 
D. Author of Brain and Personality , What is Physical Life ? etc . 
IN one of Carlyle's earliest productions , dealing with the philosophy of Clothes , he showed that a man quite plainly reveals his inner self by what he wears . 
Thus , Who created the worlds by the word of his power means Who created the worlds by his powerful word . 
The body of our humiliation is our humiliating body . 
Who shall deliver me from the body of this death ? is from this deadly body , as the context of the passage clearly shows . 
In each case the second noun is the adjective modifying the first . 
To the adverbs , however , must be given the preeminence among all human words . 
But even here there are gradations in rank . 
Thus the adverb , Why ? may be nothing but a question of curiosity , and hence its idea may be suggested to an inquisitive monkey . 
But it is not so with the question , How ? Why ? may be answered by an affirmation , but How ? can be answered only by a demonstration . 
Instead , it seeks to find the hidden and the unknown by following up one clue after another . 
When the astronomer , Leverrier , found that the planets Saturn and Uranus did not come to time , he asked himself how that could be . 
But , after all , to decide how the vast heavenly bodies move in space is easy compared with finding out how to make a sewing machine go . 
For a needle to thread itself and then rapidly proceed to sew without the help of fingers calls for the discovery of more hows than are needed to explain Laplace's Mecanique celeste . 
Mass and gravity suffice for the one , but only a Yankee's mind could have created the other . 
We have now come to a great word create . 
A creator is a being who gives origin to things which would not exist but for his intelligent purpose and design . 
In this last , an engineer stood at the foot of the great mountain and asked himself how he could tunnel it for nations to pass through . 
But man is an infinite creator by which we mean that his creative capacity is limitless and inexhaustible . 
No sooner does he create one thing than he turns to create another thing totally different from it . 
A locomotive thundering past with a long train has no resemblance to a telegraph line , nor that , in turn , to a great printing press . 
Man coolly sets at defiance the most fundamental laws of physical science . 
THE ETHER ENSLAVED And what about that mysterious ether ? It can neither be seen , heard , felt , handled , smelt , nor tasted . 
A large convention of chimpanzees could not combine to make one pin or one sleeve button , if they tried . 
All this is because man is native to the world of relations , which no other earthly beings are , because they cannot go beyond the information provided by their bodily senses . 
Man , on the contrary , gains infinitely more knowledge than his bodily senses can afford . 
By studying the relations of abstract points to abstract lines , he becomes a mathematician . 
Following up the many hows of chemistry , he talks about molecules , atoms , and ions as fluently as if he had seen or handled them . 
MAN IS INVISIBLE This explains how man can and does create . 
Every great invention existed first in the mind of the inventor . 
Moreover , this great human creator is as invisible as the Divine Creator Himself . 
When a man six feet high is a mile off , it says that he is only six inches high . 
But what would the Russian Witte not have given if he could have telegraphed to St . 
Every human personality belongs to the real world , the world of the Unseen , and cannot be known except as he chooses to reveal himself . 
Medical science , however , shows that the brain no more thinks than the hand and foot do , but is simply the instrument of the invisible thinker . 
He will leave the other hemisphere in each case wholly speechless or thoughtless , and concerned only with the business of governing the muscles or receiving the bodily sensations of its corresponding side . 
If brain matter really itself thought , we should have two thinking and speaking hemispheres and this the first case of loss of speech by an apoplectic clot would disprove . 
By thy words thou shalt be judged . 
This means that man is to be judged by his own creations , for it is only men who create words . 
By their words they show what is in them , both intellectually and morally . 
We have demonstrated that the being who can ask the question , How ? naturally belongs to the universe . 
Already he knows what stuff inconceivably distant stars are made of and the how to know that he found in a small glass prism . 
THE MORAL HOW It would seem , therefore , as if it were by some temporary accident that he is held to this little material speck of matter called the earth . 
And this impression grows upon us as we study the greatest facts of human life . 
We enter this world knowing nothing and not nearly so well equipped to take care of ourselves as are other animals . 
There is no helplessness like that of a babe . 
In his life here he may become either a great financier or a great statesman , but certainly not either unless he knows how . 
Any education , in fact , is simply learning how . 
What is true in the intellectual world is still more true in the moral world . 
Whenever a question bearing on morals enters , every one should stop and ask , How ? A mistake here is like entering the wrong gate in a large railroad station . 
The longer you stay in its corresponding train , the farther it will take you from where you should go . 
For example , there are some who say that the human will is not free , but that our actions are all , in the last analysis , according to our make up . 
In other words , we are machines which must go as they are made to go . 
The only answer to such a talker should be , Get out ! with particular emphasis on the out . 
She'll sit indoors , and stitch , and moon , And sip her tea , and clink her spoon , This whole blue , breezy afternoon ! For so do all Young Ladies . 
Come , Poll , come , Bet ! Escaped from school , We'll wade across the shallows cool Of Roaring Tom and Silver Pool , And climb the pines of Randal . 
Too begin with , there must be the idea , then to find the man or woman best able to embody it . 
That settled , the author must steep himself in his subject . 
When he acquires mastery , his findings are written down and submitted to the editor . 
This may take months it often requires years . 
It has happened that the editor did not know what he wanted until he read this first draft . 
Now he has the subject spread before him by an authority . 
His associates all read it and criticise . 
Sometimes that first draft is flawless , but most often it is returned to the author with direction for reconstruction . 
The process may be repeated half a dozen times . 
Finally the manuscript is satisfactory , which means that it is valuable , simply expressed , and readable . 
It is in shape for publication . 
It is put into type and sent around to outside experts who are the representative authorities on the subject . 
In these days a magazine can afford to have its conclusions disputed , but its facts must be incontrovertible . 
Perhaps the trouble the big publications take to be right and that means square and just , as well as accurate explains such prestige and influence as they now enjoy in America . 
At a women's club gathering in Mississippi , recently , Harris Dickson told his audience something about an article of his that had recently appeared in EVERYBODY'S . 
He explained that a manuscript written by another man had been sent him to put in shape . 
The facts were there , and the moral , but the treatment was technical . 
Dickson knew nothing of the other author , and so proceeded to get up the subject at first hand . 
He took not one of the facts for granted . 
After three months he returned the revised manuscript to the magazine . 
It was sent back , with specific directions for rewriting . 
In due course he again remailed it to the editor , who congratulated him on his achievement for that is what it was . 
, was sent round among the experts . 
The first man who read it was a high official of one of the old line insurance companies , but a hearty believer in the fraternal system . 
He returned it with approval and an elaborate criticism . 
Then it was submitted to the chief insurance commissioner of a western state the undoubted political authority on the subject . 
The approval and criticisms of both men , with the manuscript , were again forwarded to Mr. Dickson . 
The necessary corrections having been incorporated , the manuscript was ready for the printer . 
To make assurance doubly sure , proofs were sent out to prominent officials of leading fraternal organizations , who returned them with most commendatory letters . 
And then , and only then , did it appear in the magazine . 
Yet it involved a matter that concerned five million men and their families , and a tremendous controversy . 
Its appearance has made the controversy even keener , and of course the enemies of sanity and good order in fraternalism are now hurling bolts at us . 
However , when we have done our part and know we are right , we stay put . 
Mr. Dickson told part of what to us is a familiar story . 
In this instance he knew nothing of the time and trouble the author and ourselves had taken just to get together the facts and place them in the right perspective . 
We began on this particular article in November , , and during the interval it was being worked at or over by one of some dozen men . 
The same is true of most of our big series . 
The Woman's Invasion represented two and a half years of work . 
Fifteen months elapsed between the delivery of Judge Lindsey's first manuscript and the beginning of publication in the magazine . 
Trained writers , the best men we know about , are out investigating and gathering the facts for the articles we will print a year hence . 
This is the process of magazine making to day . 
It is not peculiar to EVERYBODY'S it is the rule with COLLIER'S , MCCLURE'S , the AMERICAN , and SUCCESS . 
INSTEAD OF AN ARTICLE This is all by way of introduction to the story of an article that was not written . 
Before going about it , we debated it very carefully . 
were fairly familiar with the subject , and we believed it would subserve no useful purpose to tackle it along the Shame of the Cities lines . 
We agreed that the way to approach Pittsburg was to consider what had happened there , not as a sporadic outburst , but as an economic symptom . 
Whom could we get that was far enough from the controversies involved to treat the subject objectively and with a big perspective ? Brand Whitlock . 
So we telegraphed to find if he was free to write an article , and , when he replied in the affirmative , the following letter was sent him April , . 
WHITLOCK The article we want is on Pittsburg . 
It is neither our purpose nor our desire merely to muckrake Pittsburg or any other city . 
Here are a few thoughts that occur to me which might be represented We have come to realize that the real trouble in our country is Privilege . 
Big business , in its ruthless pursuit of results , has the ultimate responsibility for the ills that confront us in political , social , and commercial life . 
The graft scandals , the bank defalcations , etc . 
, are simply symptoms of internal disorders . 
They are the eruptions of the disease . 
Pittsburg might be called the typical get rich quick community . 
Its great wealth is based on the abundant coal and iron with which the Creator loaded its environment . 
Down on those deposits fasten thousands of Americans seized with the mania of money making . 
They coin the coal and iron into millions . 
They work feverishly they work their men furiously . 
It's a mad , frenzied scramble for success and sensation . 
To get rich quicker , they exact excessive protection from Congress first to prop up infant industries , then to consolidate abnormal profits . 
If the government undertakes to deny their demands , they bluster first , then intrigue , then intimidate . 
Mills are closed down the prosperity of the country is threatened , lobbies are organized , corruption funds subscribed , until Congress succumbs and new jokers are written into steel tariffs . 
In the meantime a huge city is upreared . 
But this city is run for the benefit of its industries , not for the comfort of its inhabitants . 
Street railway , gas , electric corporations are organized , ostensibly to serve the community , actually enabling a greedy group to make more money . 
Again , what cannot be gained by request is won by force and guile . 
What wonder that weaker men , confronted by the colossal rewards of industrial conquest , are frenzied with the gold fever ? In the absence of communal patriotism , graft becomes an incident . 
Graft and greed are the minor watchwords of success . 
Get money , anyway but get it . 
The great manufacturers , the great merchants , the great lawyers high priests of the Power God throw up their hands . 
Can such things be ? Dreadful , horrible ! blindly oblivious of their own responsibility for the epidemic . 
More startling still to the conquerors were the pitiless revelations of the Survey , exhibiting in mathematical terms the cost to the human factor of this monstrous material success . 
The turn of the worker comes . 
The conquerors , having learned that they cannot take greedily what belongs to a community , and find happiness , turn magnificently to the rescue of their own downtrodden . 
The old question what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his soul ? has been burned into Pittsburg humanity once again . 
A similar service is here suggested . 
Such an article will help all of us to see where we are at , will help develop civic consciousness in New York , Chicago , San Francisco . 
It is immensely well worth doing . 
I'm not dictating your article . 
What is written here is purely suggestive . 
You must tell what you see and find in your own way . 
You know most of the facts . 
You are in touch with the balance . 
We'll help to get material . 
If you will , you can put up an article that the country will read . 
We'd like copy as soon as possible . 
Mr. Whitlock , replied , expressing willingness to handle the subject along the lines indicated , and asked for whatever assistance we could render him . 
He would thus have immediately a succinct , up to date statement of the case for his use as a skeleton . 
Mr. Nordman was willing to help , and soon after got into communication with Mr. Whitlock . 
Here is an account of his service , which was accompanied by a letter from District Attorney Blakeley , certifying to his reliability and knowledge of the facts . 
BRAND WHITLOCK , Toledo , Ohio . 
Dear Sir Mr. Cosgrave has asked me to forward you matter bearing on the Pittsburg graft expose and such clippings as I may have . 
I shall weave the facts together with no effort towards literary form , but rather in letter form , and present it to you not later than Monday next . 
Enclosed please find what I have termed a Retrospect , being a review of the political conditions leading to and making possible the present expose . 
Such clippings as I have will be forwarded with matter . 
I enclose letter from Mr. Blakeley . 
Very respectfully , J. JEROME NORDMAN . 
After that we waited , rather impatiently , it must be confessed , for Whitlock's manuscript . 
After the passage of other admonitory letters and telegrams , we received the following letter . 
We print it instead of an article . 
In our opinion , it is an extraordinarily valuable summary of the whole subject of municipal misrule . 
It goes far and beyond Pittsburg , and deep into economic , social , and national conditions of which that city is but an instance and an illustration . 
And , moreover , it sets forth just how such an article , could we find the right man to do it , should be written . 
Here it is Executive Offices THE CITY OF TOLEDO June , . 
JOHN O'HARA COSGRAVE , Esquire , Editor EVERYBODY'S MAGAZINE . 
COSGRAVE The Pittsburg story is big , too big and too important and too significant to do at second hand . 
I have had a valuable correspondence with Mr. Nordman , and he has most kindly put his information , and in clear form , at my disposal . 
He has sent me his scrapbook of newspaper clippings , and he has written me at length and in detail of the various exposures and prosecutions . 
I have made inquiries , too , from friends , and I have been thinking over the story that you propose . 
I find just what I expected to find , or I find the familiar symptoms of what I expected to find . 
The intelligent answers to the several questions I put to Mr. Nordman after our first few letters are exactly what I expected them to be . 
One city is all cities and all exhibit the same effects , proceeding from the same causes . 
It's as easy as it is for a physician to tell what ails a sallow and emaciated Southern cracker who shivers with chills one day , and burns up with fever the next . 
That is to say , we have here the subject only in its personal aspect , and not in its institutional , sociological , economic aspect . 
The story of Pittsburg , so far as it has been related to me , is merely the old , squalid story of municipal graft . 
Indeed , Pittsburg's story in this respect is hardly as interesting as the old stories it is , if anything , more commonplace , more squalid . 
But behind all this , there is , of course , a story , and a big one , as you unerringly divined . 
Then , there is another personality , of a different sort , in Blakeley , the district attorney . 
My accounts are meager and bald , and yet I catch glimpses of a striking personality . 
And he is another chapter of the story . 
But I don't know Blakeley I can't describe him , I can't interpret him , and I haven't the time nor the opportunity just now to become acquainted with him . 
Then there is the story of the organization of the Civic League , or whatever they call it , and especially the story of its operations . 
These good citizens , it seems , hired a detective to come and run their men down for them . 
To me the private detective is not the most inspiring and heroic figure on our modern scene but that is neither here nor there . 
One of these detectives evidently has not only ability but versatility , and in an interesting manner combines the occupation of a detective with the profession of an evangelist . 
But , if he claimed one's sympathy for the pursuers , he could not prevent one's pity from going to the ruined councilmen . 
THE SHOCK TO CARNEGIE But beyond all this and here I think I touch on the real story there is the peculiar temper and tendency of Pittsburg . 
Pittsburg is an artistic center fortunes have been lavished in endowing schools and universities and palaces for art , on symphonies and oratorios . 
This , however , isn't all though this is part . 
Pittsburg is a moral town the most moral , in the conventional sense , in all America . 
She won't even allow the kids to play baseball on a back lot on Sunday . 
A woman , an old friend of mine who lives in Pittsburg , said I think it very unfortunate that the Survey was published . 
It overlooks Pittsburg's good points . 
For instance , Pittsburg has more churches than any city of its size in America . 
More people of our class go to church than in any place I ever saw more money is given to charity . 
People just pour out of their houses and into the churches on Sunday morning . 
She was quite serious and she expressed Pittsburg , or the ruling class of Pittsburg , exactly . 
Now I don't mean to say that Pittsburg is especially hypocritical but she does seem to be pharisaical . 
Written properly if I am right it would be an eloquent exposition of phariseeism at its apotheosis . 
THE REAL STORY OF PITTSBURG Now I can't write this , because I haven't the evidence to prove what I see , or think I see . 
All I have is the mere outline and the outline applies , as I have said , to most cities . 
I do not feel at all equipped for this task , and no amount of material without the personal contact could equip me for this service . 
With my material , I could only write the old and squalid story of a rather commonplace exposure of municipal grafting , and that wouldn't be worth while . 
The story of Pittsburg would be all that the story of any city is as I have indicated the bi partisan machine , the public service corporation , etc . 
but it would be more . 
It would be the story of Chris Magee , the good natured , human boss of Blakeley , the upright prosecutor of the methods of hired detectives and the corruption of officialdom . 
Pittsburg has riches , art , organized charity , and piety but she lacks wealth , beauty , social justice , and religion . 
And sending the bad to prison , and electing the good to office , and changing the paper charters of the city , are not going to work any real reform . 
They think they'll get good government and civic righteousness , and then their problems will be solved . 
This is what they propose to do this is all they tell us now , and I can't write a story on that . 
The story would be as futile as little legal reforms . 
Pittsburg can't be saved by an aristocracy of the better element , she can be saved only by democracy with a very little d . 
And she will be saved that way some day , never fear , though not until all the other cities are similarly saved . 
I shall await with interest what you think of my suggestions . 
Your ever sincere friend , BRAND WHITLOCK . 
XXIII No. AUGUST THE WOMEN OF TO MORROW page part . 
By WILLIAM HARD EDITOR'S NOTE It is commonly supposed that only the women of poverty are affected by modern industrial conditions . 
It is among these women that economic developments are producing the profoundest changes in habit of life and in character of mind . 
EVERY Jack has his Jill . 
It is a tender twilight thought , and it more or less settles Jill . 
When the Census Man was at work in , however , he went about and counted , , American women who were more than twenty five years old and who were still unmarried . 
The Census Man groups us into age periods . 
The period from twenty five to twenty nine is the most important matrimonially because it is the one in which most of us get pretty well fixed into our life work . 
Out of every , women in that period , in the year , the Census Man found who were still unmarried . 
In , only ten years later , he found . 
There is not so much processional as recessional about marriage at present . 
The rebound from this fact hits education hard . 
Not anything in the learned professions . 
But to be social workers in settlements or for charity societies , to be librarians , to be stenographers and secretaries . 
At that point in her life she will have two degrees and seventeen years of schooling behind her . 
But we are beginning to do some training for almost everything . 
Did you ever see a school of salesmanship for department store women employees ? You can see one at the Women's Educational and Industrial Union in Boston . 
In the class on color , for instance , you will at first be puzzled by the vivid interest taken by the pupils in the theory of it . 
You have never before observed in any classroom so intimate a concern about rainbows , prisms , spectra , and the scientific sources of aesthetic effects . 
Your mind runs back to your college days and returns almost alarmed to this unacademic display of genuine , spontaneous , unanimous enthusiasm toward a classroom study of a theoretical subject . 
At last the reason for it works into your mind . 
These girls are engaged in the practice of color every afternoon , over hats , ribbons , waists , gloves , costumes . 
When you begin once to study a subject which reaches practice in your life , you cannot stop with practice . 
A law of your mind carries you on to the philosophy of it . 
Right there you see the reason why trade training , broadly contrived , broadens not only technique but soul , trains not only to earn but to live . 
Refined selling , some of the girls call the salesmanship which they learn in Mrs. Prince's class . 
They have perceived , to some extent , the relation between the arts and sciences on the one hand and their daily work on the other . 
Ah ! There , precisely , is the danger . 
Every Jack should have his Jill but if every Jill has her job , why , there again the wedding day goes receding some more into the future . 
Theoretically , everybody on Manhattan Island could get up and go away and leave the island vacant . 
Actually , it can't and won't be done . 
Theoretically , we should all of us get married young . 
We fall in love young enough . 
But , actually , we can't get married young , and don't . 
The reasons are given later . 
Meanwhile , just notice , and just ponder , the following facts . 
It was in the United States as a whole that the Census Man found out of every , women in the twenty five to twenty nine age period unmarried . 
But the United States consists of developed and undeveloped regions . 
The cities are the high points of development . 
Look at the cities In Chicago , out of every , women in the age period from twenty five to twenty nine , there were who were unmarried . 
In Manhattan and the Bronx there were . 
In Fall River , out of every , women in the twenty five to twenty nine period , the unmarried were . 
In New Haven they were . 
More and more the girls in this school are willing to stay in it for a full year . 
It is not only a matter of learning to do one particular thing in one particular department in one particular trade . 
That they could learn in a factory . 
It is a matter of getting some understanding of a whole trade , or getting some kind of a view of how the world is run . 
Nobody wants to make people into machines . 
The object of a good trade school is precisely the reverse . 
In this middle ground the pupil takes simple courses in , for instance , Civics and Industries . 
Nothing to it , says an irritated manufacturer . 
Nothing to it at all ! I can't get a good office boy any more . 
I can't get anybody , boy or girl , who wants to do anything but just hold down a job and grab a pay envelope . 
They just went to work . 
I say send 'em to work young and let 'em sweat . 
That's what makes men and women . 
My dear sir , those early New Englanders were in trade schools from the time they began to crawl on the floor among their mothers' looms and spinning wheels . 
The facts about this are so simple and so familiar that we don't stop to think of their meaning . 
A boy from that family , even if he never learned to read or write , might some day have some IDEAS about soap . 
In March and in April , from morning to night , In sowing and setting good housewives delight . 
A course in Medicinal Herbs . 
Borage , fennel , wild tansy , wormwood , etc . 
Aqua composita , barberry conserve , electuaries , salves , and ointments . 
A most important course for every housewife . 
A speedy and a sovereign remedy , The bitter wormwood , sage and marigold . 
In this course pretty nearly everything will be pickled , down to nasturtium buds and radish pods . 
A course in Salting Meat in the powdering tub . 
A course in Smoking Hams and Bacons . 
A course in Pickling Pig's feet and Ears . 
A course in Headcheese and Sausages . 
The making of wort out of barley . 
The making of harm out of hops . 
The fermenting of the two together in barrels . 
A course in Light Drinks , such as Elderberry Wine . 
A course in Making Butter . 
A course in Making Cheese , Curdling , breaking curds in basket , shaping in cheese press , turning and rubbing cheese on cheese ladder . 
A course in Making Brooms out of Guinea wheat Straw . 
A course in Starch making . 
A course in Preserving everything that can't be pickled . 
, bun , bannock , jannock , rusk , etc . 
The melting of tallow or bayberries . 
The attaching of wicks to rods . 
The dipping of them into the melted mass in the kettle . 
Patience in keeping on dipping them . 
A course in Wax Candles . 
Before mentioning it , we call attention to a picture reproduced in this article from a book published in the year . 
The book was a French translation of Boccaccio's collection of stories called Noble Women . 
The picture shows a woolen mill being operated in the grounds of a palace by a queen and her ladies in waiting . 
It summons back the days when even the daughters of kings and nobles could not help acquiring a knowledge of the working world , because they were in it . 
One of the ladies in waiting is straightening out the tangled strands of wool with carding combs . 
The other has taken the combed and straightened strands and is spinning them into yarn . 
The queen , being the boss , has the best job . 
She is weaving the yarn into cloth on a loom . 
The daughters of the Emperor Charlemagne , who was a very rich man , learned how to card and spin and weave . 
Noble women had to boss all that kind of thing on their estates . 
They lived in the very midst of Industry , of Business . 
So it was with those early New England women . 
And therefore , whether well to do or indigent , they passed on to their sons as well as to their daughters a steady daily lesson in the world's work . 
The only place where her children can get it now is in the school . 
Large parts of what was once the Home are now spread out through the Community . 
The new course will teach the life of the community , its activities and opportunities , civic , aesthetic , industrial . 
Such a course is nothing but Home Training for the enlarged Home . 
But we must go back for a moment to that biggest and hardest department of all in the old homes of New England . 
Deceit , weeping , spinning , God hath give To women kindly that they may live , said Chaucer in a teasing mood . 
But spinning was a very small part of the Department of Textiles . 
We forbear to dilate on the courses of instruction which that department offered . 
We confine ourselves to observing that First . 
We pass over , as trivial , the making of flax and wool stuffs into articles of actual use . 
They were for idle moments . 
Does it astonish you that they matured young ? There , all about them , from babyhood , were the basic processes by which the world was sheltered , clothed , and fed . 
Those processes were numerous but simple . 
Boys and girls observed them , absorbed them , through eyes , through finger tips , all through those early years when eyes and finger tips are the nourishing points of the intellect . 
John Winthrop , the first governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony , was married at seventeen . 
His parents were not only willing , but aiding and abetting . 
They considered him a man . 
A study of their lives will show that at that age they were mature . 
Who has thus prolonged infancy who has thus postponed maturity ? No individual . 
Science has done part of it . 
It takes us longer to learn it . 
And till we have done that , to some degree , we are not mature . 
With this postponement of personal maturity , there is an even greater postponement of what might be called technical maturity . 
The real mastery of a real technique takes longer and longer . 
The teacher must not only go to college but must do graduate work . 
The young doctor , after he finishes college and medical school , is found as an interne in hospitals , as an assistant to specialists , as a traveler through European lecture rooms . 
The young engineer , the young architect , the young specialist of every sort , finds his period of preparation steadily extending before him . 
What is left undone by Science in keeping us immature is finally accomplished by System . 
The world is getting organized . 
we most of us start in on our life work at some small subdivided job in a large organization of people . 
The work of the organization is so systematized as to concentrate responsibility and remuneration toward the top . 
In time , from job to job , up an ascent which grows longer as the organization grows bigger , we achieve responsibility . 
Till we do , we discharge minor duties for minimum pay . 
This is just as true of the boy from a middle class family as it is of the boy from a working class family . 
There follows , however , a most important difference between them . 
The middle class boy will have to work longer and go farther than the working class boy in order to rise to the financial standards of his class . 
In this respect the working class boy will be a man , ready for marriage , long before his middle class fellow worker . 
It is among middle class boys , then , that the period of infancy is most prolonged . 
They get a good deal of schooling . 
The stores of human knowledge are put in their hands , to some extent , and , to some extent , they catch up with the experience of the race . 
This takes a longer and longer effort , particularly if real mastery of any real technique is attempted . 
They will not soon be earning what is regarded among their friends as a marrying income . 
In money , as well as in mind , they approach marriage with increasing tardiness . 
Their prolonged infancy is financial , as well as mental . 
They say that college girls marry late . 
But it isn't properly stated . 
The girls in the kind of family which college girls come from marry late . 
It can be definitively established by statistics here considerately omitted that the age of marriage of college girls is no later than the age of marriage of their non college sisters and acquaintances . 
College is not a cause . 
Out of the prolongation of infancy in the middle class has come the conquest by women of the intellectual freedom of the world . 
But the working class man soon reaches his maximum earning capacity in his craft and stays there . 
His financial infancy is short , compared with that of the middle class man . 
An honest woman keeps indoors . 
When she went indoors , she went in to a job . 
The middle class daughter of to day , if her mother is living and housekeeping , goes indoors into a vacuum . 
Out of that vacuum came the explosion which created the first woman's colleges . 
There was plenty of sentiment in the explosion . 
That was the splendid , blinding part of it . 
That was the part of it which even to day makes us veil our eves before the nobility of such women as Emma Willard and Mary Lyon . 
But the needs were there , the need to be something , the need to do something , self respecting , self supporting . 
The existence of these needs was clearly revealed in the fact that from the early women's colleges and from the early coeducational universities there at once issued a large supply of teachers . 
This goes back to the fountainhead of the higher education of women in this country . 
to being regarded as the organizer of the first normal school in the United States . 
From that time to this most college women have taught school before getting married . 
The higher education of women has been , in economic effect , a trade school for training women for the trade of teacher . 
The colleges instruct their pupils in the subjects which those pupils subsequently teach . 
The pupils specialize in the subjects which they are going to teach . 
We are more interested in observing that the amount of trade training which a teacher is expected to take is increasing year by year . 
In teaching , as in other trades , the period and scope of preliminary preparation continue to expand . 
Hitherto practical training has been thought necessary for teachers of primary schools only , but similar training is very desirable for teachers in high schools and colleges also . 
Indeed , it is already becoming increasingly difficult for college graduates without practical and theoretical pedagogical knowledge to secure good positions . 
In addition to the lectures open to undergraduates , courses will be organized for graduate students only , conducted with special reference to preparation for the headship and superintendence of schools . 
But the teaching trade is getting choked . 
There is too much supply . 
Girls are going to college in hordes . 
Graduating from college , looking for work , there is usually just one kind of work toward which they are mentally alert . 
Their college experience has seldom roused their minds toward any other kind of work . 
It is a turning point in the economic history of the class . 
read a real essay on The Economic Efficiency of College Women . 
This essay was not written till detailed reports on income and expenditure from self supporting college graduates had been got together . 
Out of these there were who were teachers . 
There were who had followed up their regular college course with from one to eight years of graduate study . 
The capital invested in education was from to and often amounted to because of advanced work and travel . 
were still earning less than . 
At that Women's Educational and Industrial Union , at Boylston Street , you may see the evolution toward the age of trained women proceeding at all levels of educational equipment . 
There , before you , at one level , are the Trade School Shops a shop in hand work and a shop in millinery . 
The pupils are graduates of the Boston Trade School for Girls . 
They have had one year of training . 
They are now taking another . 
Florence Marshall made the Boston Trade School , with a committee of women to help her . 
It has now been taken over by the public authorities and merged into the public school system . 
What looked like a private fad has become a public function . 
The training of women for self support has been recognized as a duty of the state . 
The Trade School Shops at the Women's Educational and Industrial Union were started for the express purpose of supplementing the work of the Boston Trade School for Girls . 
One year was not enough . 
In the Trade School the prospective milliner had spent four months on plain sewing , four months on summer hats , four months on winter hats . 
She had also taken short courses in Personal Hygiene , Business Forms , Spelling , Business English , Color Design , Textiles , Industrial Conditions . 
These latter courses were not , strictly speaking , technical . 
They were in the middle ground between general and technical training . 
They went beyond the general training of the elementary schools and furnished the girl with the background of her future vocation . 
But she often needed a little more of the foreground , a little more of actual trade technique . 
Thus does her education divide itself up into periods general , vocational , technical . 
The Trade School Shops are designed to give the girl her final technical finish . 
They are really more like a factory than like a school . 
Although the object of them is to convey a broad instruction , the pupil gets wages , the stuff she makes is sold , and the organization is that of a commercial establishment . 
So , at the end of two years from the time she left the elementary school , the young milliner is ready to go out into the world organization . 
She is better fitted for her world than many a college girl is for hers . 
On a different level of educational equipment from the Trade School Shops stands the School of Salesmanship . 
It gets many high school girls and even , occasionally , a girl who has been to college . 
Finally , there is the Appointment Bureau , for college girls in particular . 
This Appointment Bureau is the most extraordinary employment agency ever organized . 
, but to make forays into the wild region of occupations other than teaching , and find jobs , and then find girls to fit those jobs . 
It is managed by Miss Laura Drake Gill , President of the National Association of Collegiate Alumnae and former Dean of Barnard College . 
She is assisted by an Advisory Council of representatives of near by colleges Radcliffe , Wellesley , Simmons , Mount Holyoke , Smith , and Brown . 
There is no more important work being done for women to day . 
In connection with it , the Women's Educational and Industrial Union has just issued a handbook of three hundred pages , entitled Vocations for the Trained Woman . 
will be observed in a future article . 
Just one response , from an unexpected quarter , must be noticed here . 
Only Troy Female Seminary and Mount Holyoke Seminary preceded it , in date of foundation , among the important women's institutions . 
Rockford College is ranked to day , by the reports of the United States Commissioner of Education , in rank one among the sixteen best women's colleges in the United States . 
It hasn't risen to that rank by any quick , money spurred spurt . 
But here , in this quiet , non metropolitan college , so really academic , so really in the oldest fashioned ways cultural , here is a two year course in secretarial studies . 
that such a thing has happened in any of the old first rank women's colleges . 
We keep moving forward into an era of trained women as well as trained men . 
But the contraction of the home as a field of adequate employment for daughters exists everywhere , increasing the cost of living for the family and driving daughters to supplementing the family income . 
The unmarried women and the widows together numbered , , . 
For every two women married there was one woman either single or widowed . 
train them to one of the techniques which lead to self support in that world , it is not education . 
Just at this point , though , we encounter a curious conflict in women's education . 
All women must be trained to it . 
At Rockford College , illustrating this conflict , there exists , besides the course in Secretarial Studies , an equivalent course in Home Economics . 
In one photograph in this article we show the tiny children of the Francis Parker School in Chicago taking their first lesson in the technique of the home . 
In another picture we show the post graduate laboratory in the technique of the home at the University of Illinois . 
The money earning world , a technique ! The home , a technique ! The boy learns only one . 
Law and Order By O. HENRY AUTHOR OF THE FOUR MILLION , THE HEART OF THE WEST , STRICTLY BUSINESS , ETC . 
I found myself in Texas a recently , revisiting old places and vistas . 
At a sheep ranch where I had sojourned many years ago , I stopped for a week . 
And , as all visitors do , I heartily plunged into the business at hand , which happened to be that of dipping the sheep . 
Now , this process is so different from ordinary human baptism that it deserves a word of itself . 
A vast iron cauldron with half the fires of Avernus beneath it is partly filled with water that soon boils furiously . 
Then this concentrated brew is mixed in a long , deep vat with cubic gallons of hot water , and the sheep are caught by their hind legs and flung into the compound . 
Mr. Mills , the ranch owner and my old friend , rode away to the ranch with his force of Mexican trabajadores . 
While the bacon was frizzling nicely , there was the sound of horses' hoofs behind us . 
Bud's six shooter lay in its scabbard ten feet away from his hand . 
He paid not the slightest heed to the approaching horseman . 
This attitude of a Texas ranchman was so different from the old time custom that I marveled . 
Instinctively I turned to inspect the possible foe that menaced us in the rear . 
I saw a horseman dressed in black , who might have been a lawyer or a parson or an undertaker , trotting peaceably along the road by the arroyo . 
Bud noticed my precautionary movement and smiled sarcastically and sorrowfully . 
You've been away too long , said he . 
I never looked at that hombre that rode by but I'll bet a quart of sheep dip that he's some double dyed son of a popgun out rounding up prohibition votes . 
Times have changed , Bud , said I , oracularly . 
Law and order is the rule now in the South and the Southwest . 
I caught a cold gleam from Bud's pale blue eyes . 
Not that I I began , hastily . 
Of course you don't , said Bud warmly . 
Law and order , you say ? Twenty years ago we had 'em here . 
We only had two or three laws , such as against murder before witnesses , and being caught stealing horses , and voting the Republican ticket . 
But how is it now ? All we get is orders and the laws go out of the state . 
Them legislators set up there at Austin and don't do nothing but make laws against kerosene oil and schoolbooks being brought into the state . 
I reckon they was afraid some man would go home some evening after work and light up and get an education and go to work and make laws to repeal aforesaid laws . 
Me , I'm for the old days when law and order meant what they said . 
A law was a law , and a order was a order . 
You've heard of old Ben Kirkman , the cattle king ? His ranch run from the Nueces to the Rio Grande . 
In them days , as you know , there was cattle barons and cattle kings . 
When he bought 'em champagne wine and added in the amount of cattle he had stole , they called him a king . 
Luke Summers was one of his range bosses . 
And down to the king's ranch comes one day a bunch of these Oriental people from New York or Kansas City or thereabouts . 
Luke was detailed with a squad to ride about with 'em , and see that the rattlesnakes got fair warning when they was coming , and drive the deer out of their way . 
Among the bunch was a black eyed girl that wore a number two shoe . 
That's all I noticed about her . 
But Luke must have seen more , for he married her one day before the caballard started back , and went over on Canada Verde and set up a ranch of his own . 
I'm skipping over the sentimental stuff on purpose , because I never saw or wanted to see any of it . 
And Luke takes me along with him because we was old friends and I handled cattle to suit him . 
I never had no use for kids but it seems they did . 
One looked like an uncle to somebody and one looked like nothing and the other one had on corkscrew pants and spoke in a tone of voice . 
I never liked a man who spoke in a tone of voice . 
I waits at the hitching rack , not wishing to intrude on private affairs . 
But two of the two or three men carries between 'em the corkscrew man who spoke in a tone of voice , and lays him flat down in one of the wagons . 
And they all might have been seen wending their way away . 
Bud , says Luke to me , I want you to fix up a little and go up to San Antone with me . 
Let me get on my Mexican spurs , says I , and I'm your company . 
One of the sisters or so seems to have stayed at the ranch with Mrs. Summers and the kid . 
We rides to Encinal and catches the International , and hits San Antone in the morning . 
After breakfast Luke steers me straight to the office of a lawyer . 
They go in a room and talk and then come out . 
Oh , there won't be any trouble , Mr. Summers , says the lawyer . 
I'll acquaint Judge Simmons with the facts to day and the matter will be put through as promptly as possible . 
Law and order reigns in this state as swift and sure as any in the country . 
I'll wait for the decree if it won't take over half an hour , says Luke . 
Tut , tut , says the lawyer man . 
Law must take its course . 
Come back day after to morrow at half past nine . 
At that time me and Luke shows up , and the lawyer hands him a folded document . 
And Luke writes him out a check . 
Skipping over much what has happened of which I know nothing , says I , it looks to me like a split . 
Couldn't the lawyer man have made it a strike for you ? Bud , says he , in a pained style , that child is the one thing I have to live for . 
SHE may go but the boy is mine ! think of it I have cus to dy of the child . 
All right , says I. If it's the law , let's abide by it . 
But I think , says I , that Judge Simmons might have used exemplary clemency , or whatever is the legal term , in our case . 
But Luke was struck with that sort of parental foolishness that I never could understand . 
Cus to dy of the child , Bud , says he . 
Don't forget it cus to dy of the child . 
But when we hits the ranch we finds our decree of court obviated , nolle prossed , and remanded for trial . 
Mrs. Summers and the kid was gone . 
They tell us that an hour after me and Luke had started for San Antone she had a team hitched and lit out for the nearest station with her trunks and the youngster . 
Luke takes out his decree once more and reads off its emoluments . 
It ain't possible , Bud , says he , for this to be . 
It's contrary to law and order . 
It's wrote as plain as day here Cus to dy of the child . 
There is what you might call a human leaning , says I , towards smashing 'em both not to mention the child . 
Judge Simmons , goes on Luke , is a incorporated officer of the law . 
She can't take the boy away . 
He belongs to me by statutes passed and approved by the state of Texas . 
And he's removed from the jurisdiction of mundane mandamuses , says I , by the unearthly statutes of female partiality . 
Let us praise the Lord and be thankful for whatever small mercies I begins but I see Luke don't listen to me . 
Tired as he was , he calls for a fresh horse and starts back again for the station . 
He come back two weeks afterwards , not saying much . 
We can't get the trail , says he but we've done all the telegraphing that the wires'll stand , and we've got these city rangers they call detectives on the lookout . 
In the meantime , Bud , says he , we'll round up them cows on Brusby Creek , and wait for the law to take its course . 
And after that we never alluded to allusions , as you might say . 
Skipping over much what happened in the next twelve years , Luke was made sheriff of Mojada County . 
He made me his office deputy . 
Now , don't get in your mind no wrong apparitions of a office deputy doing sums in a book or mashing letters in a cider press . 
In them days his job was to watch the back windows so nobody didn't plug the sheriff in the rear while he was adding up mileage at his desk in front . 
And in them days I had qualifications for the job . 
And , as I say , there was law and order instead of enactments and restrictions such as disfigure our umpire state to day . 
We had our office at Bildad , the county seat , from which we emerged forth on necessary occasions to soothe whatever fracases and unrest that might occur in our jurisdiction . 
Skipping over much what happened while me and Luke was sheriff , I want to give you an idea of how the law was respected in them days . 
Luke was what you would call one of the most conscious men in the world . 
He never knew much book law , but he had the inner emoluments of justice and mercy inculcated into his system . 
We certainly had our county on a basis of lawfulness . 
Luke had his own ideas of legality and justice . 
He was kind of training me to succeed him when he went out of office . 
He was always looking ahead to the time when he'd quit sheriffing . 
What he wanted to do was to build a yellow house with lattice work under the porch and have hens scratching in the yard . 
The one main thing in his mind seemed to be the yard . 
Bud , he says to me , by instinct and sentiment I'm a contractor . 
I want to be a contractor . 
That's what I'll be when I get out of office . 
What kind of a contractor ? says I. It sounds like a kind of a business to me . 
You ain't going to haul cement or establish branches or work on a railroad , are you ? You don't understand , says Luke . 
I'm tired of space and horizons and territory and distances and things like that . 
What I want is reasonable contraction . 
I want a yard with a fence around it that you can go out and set on after supper and listen to whip poor wills . 
I'm a fool about whip poor wills , says Luke . 
That's the kind of a man he was . 
He was home like , although he'd had bad luck in such investments . 
But he never talked about them times on the ranch . 
It seemed like he'd forgotten about it . 
But he wasn't a man you could ask about such things as he didn't refer to in his own conversation . 
I reckon he'd put all his emotions and ideas into being sheriff . 
Well , I guess that was the way with Luke . 
There was five of 'em four solid parties , with gold watch chains , that would grade up over two hundred pounds on the hoof , and one kid about seventeen or eighteen . 
Luke was away after a gang of cattle thieves down on the Frio , and I always looked after the law and order when he wasn't there . 
He was a good looking kid only he was like all them tenderfoots he didn't know a law and order town when he saw it . 
By and by along comes Pedro Johnson , the proprietor of the Crystal Palace chili con carne stand in Bildad . 
Pedro was a man who liked to amuse himself so he kind of herd rides this youngster , laughing at him , tickled to death . 
I saw the dust fly off his clothes every time the bullets hit . 
Sometimes them little thirty twos cause worry at close range . 
The engine bell was ringing , and the train starting off slow . 
I goes up to the kid and places him under arrest , and takes away his gun . 
But the first thing I knew that caballard of capitalists makes a break for the train . 
I never was afraid of guns but I don't want any person except a barber to take liberties like that with my face again . 
When I woke up , the whole outfit train , boy , and all was gone . 
I asked about Pedro , and they told me the doctor said he would recover provided his wounds didn't turn out to be fatal . 
When Luke got back three days later , and I told him about it , he was mad all over . 
That capitalist sure knew how to gesticulate with his hands . 
Luke got madder and madder . 
He investigates and finds in the depot a card one of the men had dropped that gives the address of some hombre called Scudder in New York City . 
Bud , says Luke , I'm going after that bunch . 
I'm going there and get the man or boy , as you say he was , and bring him back . 
I'm sheriff of Mojada County , and I shall keep law and order in its precincts while I'm able to draw a gun . 
And I want you to go with me . 
No Eastern Yankee can shoot up a respectable and well known citizen of Bildad , 'specially with a thirty two calibre , and escape the law . 
Pedro Johnson , says Luke , is one of our most prominent citizens and business men . 
I'll appoint Sam Bell acting sheriff with penitentiary powers while I'm away , and you and me will take the . 
northbound to morrow evening and follow up this trail . 
I'm your company , says I. I never see this New York , but I'd like to . 
And it's my business as office deputy , says I , to see that business is carried on according to law . 
Between us both we ought to keep things pretty well cleaned up . 
So , the next day , Luke packs a blanket and some collars and his mileage book in a haversack , and him and me hits the breeze for New York . 
It was a powerful long ride . 
But we got there finally and we seemed to see right away that he was right about it . 
From the standpoint of order , says he , it's amenable to answer for its sins to the properly appointed authorities from Bildad to Jerusalem . 
Amen , says I. But let's turn our trick sudden , and ride . 
I don't like the looks of this place . 
We put up at one of them big hotels on Broadway . 
The next morning I goes down about two miles of stairsteps to the bottom and hunts for Luke . 
It looks like San Jacinto day in San Antone . 
But soon Luke and me runs together in one of the turns of them marble alleys . 
It ain't no use , Bud , says he . 
I can't find no place to eat at . 
I've been looking for restaurant signs and smelling for ham all over the camp . 
But I'm used to going hungry when I have to . 
Now , says he , I'm going out and get a hack and ride down to the address on this Scudder card . 
You stay here and try to hustle some grub . 
But I doubt if you'll find it . 
I wish we'd brought along some cornmeal and bacon and beans . 
I'll be back when I see this Scudder , if the trail ain't wiped out . 
So I starts foraging for breakfast . 
If I didn't see what I wanted I asked for something else . 
Once a lady sitting at a table and playing a game kind of like pushpin told me to go into a closet that she called Number . 
I went in and shut the door , and the blamed thing lit itself up . 
I set down on a stool before a shelf and waited . 
Thinks I , This is a private dining room . 
But no waiter never came . 
When I got to sweating good and hard , I goes out again . 
Did you get what you wanted ? says she . 
No , ma'am , says I. Not a bite . 
Then there's no charge , says she . 
Thanky , ma'am , says I , and I takes up the trail again . 
And the first thing I lays my eyes on when I go in is that boy that had shot Pedro Johnson . 
He was setting all alone at a little table , hitting a egg with a spoon like he was afraid he'd break it . 
I takes the chair across the table from him and he looks insulted and makes a move like he was going to get up . 
Keep still , son , says I. You're apprehended , arrested , and in charge of the Texas authorities . 
Go on and hammer that egg some more if it's the inside of it you want . 
Now , what did you shoot Mr. Johnson , of Bildad , for ? And may I ask who you are ? says he . 
You may , says I. Go ahead' . 
I suppose you're on , says this kid , without batting his eyes . 
But what are you eating ? Here , waiter ! he calls out , raising his finger . 
A beefsteak , says I , and some fried eggs and a can of peaches and a quart of coffee will about suffice . 
He called me names that I couldn't overlook , and then he struck me . 
He carried a gun , too . 
It's the life I like . 
I've always wanted to ride and shoot and live in the open air ever since I can remember . 
Who was this gang of stout parties you took this trip with ? I asks . 
My stepfather , says he , and some business partners of his in some Mexican mining and land schemes . 
I saw you shoot Pedro Johnson , says I , and I took that little popgun away from you that you did it with . 
And when I did so I noticed three or four little scars in a row over your right eyebrow . 
You've been in rookus before , haven't you ? I've had these scars ever since I can remember , says he . 
I don't know how they came there . 
Was you ever in Texas before ? says I. Not that I remember of , says he . 
But I thought I had when we struck the prairie country . 
But I guess I hadn't . 
Have you got a mother ? I asks . 
She died five years ago , says he . 
Skipping over the most of what followed when Luke came back I turned the kid over to him . 
He had seen Scudder and told him what he wanted and it seems that Scudder got active with one of these telephones as soon as he left . 
They accuse Luke of attempted kidnapping , and ask him what he has to say . 
And in so doing laid himself liable to the penitence of law and order . 
And I hereby make claim and demand restitution of the State of New York City for the said alleged criminal and I know he done it . 
Have you the usual and necessary requisition papers from the governor of your state ? asks the judge . 
My usual papers , says Luke , was taken away from me at the hotel by these gentlemen who represent law and order in your city . 
's that I've packed for nine years and if I don't get 'em back , there'll be more trouble . 
You can ask anybody in Mojada County about Luke Summers . 
I don't usually need any other kind of papers for what I do . 
But he The judge hits his table with a wooden hammer and asks who I am . 
Bud Oakley , says I. Office deputy of the sheriff's office of Mojada County , Texas . 
Representing , says I , the Law . 
Luke Summers , I goes on , represents Order . 
The judge kind of half smiles and says he will talk with me in his private room . 
Skipping over much of what happened on the way back , I'll tell you how the thing wound up in Bildad . 
He'd never let anybody talk to him about that business , and he never mentioned it himself . 
Luke comes over to me shaking all over . 
I never saw him lose his nerve before . 
Bud , says he , I've never had that boy out of my mind one day or one night since he was took away . 
But I never let on . 
But can we hold him ? Can we make him stay ? I'll make the best man of him that ever put his foot in a stirrup . 
We can hold him on that , can't we ? Le'me see if I can find that decree . 
Luke begins to tear his desk to pieces . 
Hold on , says I. You are Order and I'm Law . 
You needn't look for that paper , Luke . 
It ain't a decree any more . 
It's on file in that Magistrate's office in New York . 
I took it along when we went , because I was office deputy and knew the law . 
I've got him back , says Luke . 
I never thought Wait a minute , says I. We've got to have law and order . 
You and me have got to preserve 'em both in Mojada County according to our oath and conscience . 
The kid shot Pedro Johnson , one of Bildad's most prominent and Oh , hell ! says Luke . 
That don't amount to anything . 
That fellow was half Mexican , anyhow . 
An ancient chaise , a Dobbin gray Had brought him here to spend the day . 
But here is the truly unique expedition into the jungle . 
But an American frontiersman has done it , with American cowboys , cow ponies , and hunting dogs , and with wonderful moving pictures to prove it . 
As the faces of the people on the platform glided by the window of the slowly moving carriage , there was good will written on all of them but also unbelief . 
There was no doubt as to what they thought of Buffalo Jones's expedition that was setting out to rope and tie and photograph the wild animals of the East African Veldt . 
They further took pains to explain that a rhino charges like a flash , and that a lion can catch a horse within a hundred yards . 
These items of information , however , were well known to Buffalo Jones before the expedition was organized in New York , and his preparations to meet the difficulties had been made accordingly . 
Colonel C. J. Jones is tall and spare , with a strong , rugged face and keen blue eyes . 
He has climbed trees after mountain lions , and with a lasso over a branch has hauled grizzlies up into the air by one hind leg . 
Then , deserted by their Indian guide , they started to return with their prizes , got lost in the wilderness , and fought the wolves till their cartridges ran out . 
And when at last they reached safety and fell asleep , exhausted , the Indians , obeying the laws of their religion , stole upon them in the night and killed the calves . 
But the success he had achieved with the mountain lions of the Southwest , the musk ox of the North , and the grizzly bears of the Rockies was not enough . 
For twenty years it had been the one ambition of his life to take an outfit to British East Africa to try his hand with the more ferocious big game of that country . 
But in his Western experience Colonel Jones had learned something else besides the mastery of man over beast . 
Precisely how an American cowboy was going to hold a rhinoceros that weighed two tons and a half was purely a matter of speculation . 
Yet of one thing the Colonel was certain the experiment would result in a moving picture that would be well worth the taking . 
For this reason , what afterward came to be known as the picture department was added to the make up of the expedition . 
The preparations extended over a considerable length of time , and were carried on in various places . 
Unquestionably , the most important part of the outfit was the horses . 
It was absolutely essential that they should be Western cow ponies , fast , well trained , and reliable in every way . 
The American dogs to be used for trailing were likewise chosen by the Colonel . 
Some of them belonged to him personally , and had been thoroughly tried out . 
The rest had reputations of their own . 
When , at the last moment , the writer of these articles was introduced to the expedition in the capacity of acting field manager , the preparations were well under way . 
The meeting was held at a luncheon in the Railroad Club , in New York . 
But the Colonel would hear of no possibilities , or even probabilities , of failure . 
He was peculiarly insistent upon this point . 
I know you're no fakers . 
I don't know whether you're crazy or not . 
But there is one thing in your favor The Colonel's unshaken belief that the thing can be done will probably pull it through . 
MY DEAR SCULL It has been asked by some what the object of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition was . 
You know my friend , Colonel C. J. Jones , broke his rifle a generation or so ago and vowed he would never again kill game save for food or in self defense . 
Since taking that oath he has subdued and captured all kinds of wild animals in North America , including the musk ox , buffalo , grizzly bear , and cougar . 
As a sporting proposition , it seemed to me unique and fascinating , and so , as a small tribute to Colonel Jones , I volunteered to finance the expedition . 
Very truly , CHARLES S. BIRD . 
On our arrival in London about the middle of January of this year , the work of preparation was continued at once . 
Mr. Cherry Kearton was sought to take charge of this branch of the expedition . 
Kearton a powerfully built Yorkshireman is an experienced cinematograph photographer and a naturalist of no small reputation . 
He had taken moving pictures in Africa before , and so he knew the climatic conditions there the heat radiation and the different intensities of light . 
He also knew the animals the Colonel was going to rope . 
But besides being a cinematograph expert and a naturalist , he was also a sportsman . 
When Kearton learned of the nature of the undertaking , he was skeptical . 
He had no more than a slight acquaintance with the Colonel then , and only a vague , hearsay knowledge of what the American Cowboy could do . 
Evidently his mind was divided by the dictates of common sense and the sporting instinct . 
On many occasions during this time , he questioned the feasibility of the experiment in the light of what he knew of the African beasts . 
We'll do it , the Colonel said quietly . 
Well , there's a picture in it , anyway , said Kearton , and signed the papers . 
In the meantime , Colonel Jones was hard at work collecting a rather unusual assortment of articles . 
The experience of a life time enabled him to foresee what kind of materials were absolutely necessary , and what kind might prove useful on the present expedition . 
Naturally , the articles required were not usually in stock , but the London shopkeeper is proverbially obliging and imperturbable . 
One rainy morning the Colonel walked into a hardware store and asked to see some handcuffs . 
A pair was shown him . 
Not large enough , said the Colonel . 
How large would you want them , sir ? Twice that size . 
May I ask for what purpose you require them , sir ? For lions , said the Colonel . 
Precisely , handcuffs for lions yes , you need large ones . 
I am afraid I have none in stock just now , but I can have them made for you within a few days . 
To have these things made according to specifications took time and an endless amount of running about . 
Besides , there was the more ordinary part of the equipment to procure English dogs , both foxhounds and terriers , horse blankets , extra ropes , horseshoes , and so on . 
When the last of the expedition sailed from Southampton , there were forty eight pieces of baggage on the list . 
This last contingent reached Nairobi at noon on March , and for the first time then all the members of the expedition met together . 
Loveless proved to be a man a little below the medium height he held himself very erect , walked with quick , energetic steps , and wore a blond mustache . 
He made polite inquiries as to our voyage out , commented on the hot weather , and fully explained the condition of the horses and dogs . 
He carried his head slightly forward and wore his black hair brushed low down over his forehead . 
He stood slumped on one hip , so that one shoulder also was lower than the other . 
Please' to meet you , he said . 
On our arrival at Nairobi the first matter to be decided was the district to be worked . 
The choice lay between the Sotik and the Kapeti Plains . 
According to the usual batch of contradictory stories in such cases , the game was said to be equally plentiful , or equally scarce , in both districts . 
The Colonel and his two cowboys , Loveless and Means , were ready to start at once . 
Eight out of the ten horses were in fine condition . 
With but one exception , the dogs had come through safely , though all were suffering somewhat from distemper . 
It was concluded , however , that they would recover just as rapidly in the open country as they would in Nairobi . 
Kearton and Gobbet were ready . 
Kearton had built a dark room in Nairobi , because his earlier experience had taught him that the pictures could not be developed with any degree of satisfaction in the field . 
His four special porters to carry the cameras and tripods porters he had trained on previous safaris were only waiting for the word to move . 
On the morning of that day we held the customary procession of an outgoing safari down the main street of Nairobi to the waiting train . 
The Colonel rode first , with the assorted pack of dogs at his horse's heels . 
Then came the cowboys with the led horses then the picture department then the long single line of black porters , bringing up the rear . 
The night had already fallen black and cold when the special train crested the top of the divide and coasted down grade into Kijabe . 
The rest of Kijabe is composed of four other houses , the goods shed , an open faced Indian booth , the post office , and the water tank . 
Because a large part of the revenue of the country is derived from the visiting hunters , a safari is accorded privileges out of the ordinary . 
So , as a matter of course , we took possession of the station and camped in the tin guest house for the night . 
The morning came clear and hot and still . 
But on first appearances the land looks much the same as the regulation veldt or certain parts of our own Western plains . 
We had planned to camp at Sewell's farm that night . 
It was only about four hours away , but a short trek the first day is always a good rule to follow . 
It gives every one a chance , so to speak , to shake down well into the saddle . 
The pony was stolid , lazy , and easy gaited , but Gobbet's unfamiliar attitude toward his mount was unmistakable . 
Now it is a delicate matter in any country to broach the question of a man's horsemanship , but presently Gobbet introduced the subject of his own accord . 
Of course I can't ride a horse , he said . 
Have never been on one before . 
After all , the matter was of no great importance . 
Gobbet was young and thin and active , with sharp black eyes , and the work that lay ahead of us would probably teach him to ride in short order and it did . 
We had little expectation of finding either a lion or a rhino on that first day's trip . 
We were traveling on a regular road , making a kind of initial march . 
The Colonel and the two cowboys tightened their cinches and then rode out to the westward to round up the beasts . 
Drive 'em back to us , Kearton called after them , and Means waved his hand by way of answer . 
Behind us , the line of porters was coming up along the road . 
They were straggling badly , broken up into little sections of threes and fours , so that the last of them were not yet in sight . 
Kearton placed the cameras a few yards apart , and there we waited , watching the distant specks . 
Two of the riders disappeared into a far patch of scrub . 
The third began swinging to the southward . 
His horse was galloping after something we could not see . 
In the meantime the safari was coming up , and as each section arrived it was halted , and the porters put down their loads and sat on them . 
Some of them turned their backs upon the scene in total indifference as to what was coming next others regarded the cameras with expressions of mild curiosity . 
Little by little the third horseman had swung round so that he was headed due east , riding straight at us . 
Rapidly the speck grew larger , and the two other riders came out of the scrub and joined the chase . 
Nearer and nearer they came , with the dust cloud swirling behind them . 
Gobbet began turning the handle of his camera , and the whir of the machine sounded loud in the stillness . 
One or two of the porters jumped to their feet and pointed . 
I hope they won't come straight into the lens , he said . 
If they do , it won't make a good picture . 
They ought to come at an angle . 
So , he explained , placing his hand obliquely to the line of focus . 
Then he bent over , laid his eye to the gun sight of the machine , and likewise began turning . 
The beast was running strong . 
His huge snout was thrust forward , and his upturned tusks gleamed in the sunlight . 
But gradually the black horse gained on him , and Loveless loosened the rope from his saddle and began swinging the long noose round and round his head . 
On came the wart hog , straight for Kearton's camera . 
Kearton straightened up above the machine and waved his helmet frantically . 
Give over , give over ! he shouted . 
You're driving him right into the picture . 
Give over ! The chase never swerved an inch , and Kearton bent to his work again , cursing in well selected periods . 
The next moment the hog drove past him . 
At the same instant Loveless threw his rope and caught the beast by one hind leg . 
The black horse stopped , fore feet planted firmly , and the dust cloud swept across and hid the scene . 
When the dust cleared away , the hog was lying across the road , blowing comfortably , with the rope leading from his hind leg to the horn of Loveless' saddle . 
There's the first one for you , he said . 
And my , can't he run ! Gobbet , however , was indignant . 
It's no use , he complained . 
To bring an object that way straight into the lens is against the first principles of cinematography . 
It's no use , I tell you . 
Means sat half slumped in his saddle , with his reeking horse panting heavily . 
Well , well , well , he finally drawled . 
And didn't Mr. Pig come a bending across that prairie ? He most certainly come a bending . 
The porters gathered around and looked long at the beast some of them spoke a few words in low tones , and the others nodded their heads and smiled . 
At Sewell's farm there is a pan of water made by a dam across an almost waterless brook , and alongside of this pan we pitched our camp . 
When the sun set , the high wind rose again , whirling up the dust in heavy clouds and sending the sparks from the fire scurrying over the ground . 
But the Kedong Valley wind is more or less a phenomenon of the country . 
You can count upon it absolutely for every one of its disagreeable qualities . 
I think the citizens of Africa are a little proud of it . 
There was now a fair chance that on our way into the Rift Valley we should flush one or another of the larger animals . 
Preparations for such a contingency were accordingly made before starting from Sewell's farm . 
Canteens and iron drums were filled with water , because the next camp would be a dry one . 
Every member of the party was especially cautioned to keep a sharp lookout on both sides of the road . 
Just as the day before , the morning came hot and still , and for hour after hour the straggling safari crawled slowly over the long waves of the undulating veldt . 
The road was a wagon track always vanishing in front toward the head of the valley . 
The land lay silent beneath the glaring sunlight . 
We outspanned at noon for an hour . 
The water in the canteens , cold at the start , had become warm now . 
When we mounted again , the sweat had dried on the horses , and the boots felt stiff on our feet . 
The line of the road still stretched away its interminable length until it disappeared in the distance . 
And then , as we crawled sleepily ahead over the rises , the Colonel was the first to notice the lion spoor in the dust . 
With sudden animation the safari awoke from the lethargy of the hot , monotonous march . 
The spoor was judged to be at least four hours old , so there was no use putting the dogs on it . 
On the dead grass of the bordering veldt there was nothing to show which way the lion had gone . 
But there was a chance a small one , yet still a chance that the beast was lying up near by in the shade of a thorn tree . 
So all the horsemen spread out over the veldt to obtain a wider scope of vision , and for mile after mile the company moved forward , sweeping the immediate country . 
Proceeding in this manner through the afternoon , we eventually crested a slightly higher rise and looked down into a shallow valley that was greener than the rest of the veldt . 
A few full sized trees were growing in the bottom , and there were a number of outcroppings of rock . 
Large herds of antelope were grazing there . 
The Colonel called a halt . 
There is no lion anywhere hereabouts , he said , because the game are grazing peacefully . 
But there is a bunch of eland yonder . 
We might as well round them up while the light lasts . 
The plan of operation was quickly made . 
Everything was working to perfection . 
The three horsemen drove the eland toward the cameras not directly at them , but a little to one side , at an angle , as Kearton wanted it done . 
At the proper moment Loveless roped the animal by the forelegs and neck , and threw it down . 
Loveless jumped from his horse and was running forward to tie the prize when something the smell of the strange beast , perhaps started the black horse bucking . 
With the rope made fast to the saddle and the eland acting as a pivot , the black went careering round and round . 
Both the Colonel and Means tried to rope him , and missed , and finally Loveless , on foot , caught him by the dangling reins . 
Of course such a thing might have been readily foreseen , but somehow it came as a surprise and opened up grave possibilities . 
That night in camp at Rugged Rocks we were gathered about the cook s fire for the warmth it gave , when the Colonel spoke of the affair . 
Everything was going great till that horse started bucking , the Colonel remarked . 
We've got to teach our horses not to mind the smell of these strange animals out here . 
We've got to be able to depend absolutely on our horses . 
Of course that eland wasn't dangerous . 
But when we tackle something else and a horse acts that way , it might be bad . 
But Gobbet said it was good action , anyway , and would look fine when thrown on the screen . 
March was a day of disappointments . 
Between sunrise and sunset we traveled fifteen miles to the Wangai River and hunted in turn a pair of lions , a cheetah , and a rhinoceros and lost them all . 
Two circumstances were held accountable one was the necessity of getting the horses to water , and the other was the fact that it was just a bad luck day all through . 
We came upon the lions early in the morning , close to the base of the southern volcano . 
It was while we were trying to pick up the lost trail of the lions that we flushed a cheetah out of one of the dongas . 
It broke away along the foothills , and finally stopped at bay in a district where the going was so bad for the horses that we had to give up the attempt . 
With the rhinoceros we had scarcely any chance whatsoever . 
The Colonel , who was scouting the country to the northward of the line of march , caught a glimpse of the beast in the adjacent valley . 
By the time he had come back to get us and we had ridden in pursuit , the rhino had disappeared . 
We found his trail leading still farther to the northward , and dismounted and looked down at it in silence . 
Every one knew that for lack of water the horses were too done up to follow . 
Presently he remarked to the world at large Excitement has certainly been runnin' high all day . 
The Wangai River is no river at all merely a small spring in the shadow of the range that crosses the head of the valley . 
But the spring could supply sufficient water for all our needs . 
Also , the problem of transportation demanded that Ulyate should return to Kijabe and bring up another wagon with supplies before the journey over the Mau into the Sotik could be undertaken . 
Then , too , here in the Rift Valley we had seen both lion and rhino , and there was always the chance of finding them again . 
The consultation resulted in the decision to make a permanent camp here and hunt the neighboring country until Ulyate should return . 
For the succeeding three days the Colonel laid out a plan of campaign simple , but effective , and limited only by the necessity of keeping within reasonable distance of the water . 
The plan consisted of a series of drives one in a northeasterly , one in an easterly , and one in a southeasterly direction . 
By this means we would cover in turn all the territory at the head of the valley . 
The Colonel was anxious to try again for the rhino he had seen on the march the day before , and for this reason the drive to the northeast was inaugurated first . 
Every member of the expedition took part in these drives . 
The Colonel and the writer at one end , and the two cowboys at the other , occupied the extreme positions . 
Between the right and left wings stretched a long line of porters , under the command of two escaris , and with Kearton and Gobbet in the center with the cameras . 
The dogs on leash and the saises carrying water for the horses brought up the rear . 
Two shots fired in quick succession would be the signal to gather . 
That first day's drive brought little success . 
The land across which we were driving lay at the very edge of the valley , and was consequently somewhat broken into small hills and hollows . 
By the time we came to the old rhino trail , the day was well advanced . 
There was only a large herd of hartebeests grazing on the plains below . 
The Colonel retreated halfway down the hill and fired two shots from his revolver . 
Then the Colonel explained the reason for his signal . 
The rhino was not there . 
We might still find him , and we might not . 
The chances were now that we should not . 
He had probably left the country for good and was already miles away . 
In the meanwhile a good opportunity offered for rounding up the herd of hartebeests in the plain below and driving them up the hillside to the cameras . 
On top of the hill was a small clearing , the edges of which were fringed with scrub . 
While the Colonel and the cowboys maneuvered to circle the herd , Kearton placed the cameras in the clearing , with the northern line of scrub as a background for the intended picture . 
For a long time there was silence . 
Means , however , found a cheetah , and the two faint reports of his signal brought us together on the run . 
Near by ran a small , shallow donga . 
When the rest of us rode up to him , he merely pointed at one of the tufts of grass behind which the cheetah lay crouched . 
It was a quick , sharp race and the cheetah won . 
He hid in the scrub at the bottom of the ditch . 
But in the midst of it all the Colonel put an emphatic end to the discussion . 
The black porters looking on commenced speaking in low tones in their native tongue , and nodded and grinned at each other as they had done before . 
But this time Mac was among them . 
Mac was Kearton's tent boy . 
He originally came from Somaliland and spoke English . 
He was called upon to explain what the porters said . 
They are very bad men , these people , but don't be sorry . 
They say they say that , of course , the white gentlemen are able to do what they want to do , but just the same they are all crazy . 
That night we held our second consultation . 
Ulyate had returned from Kijabe with the extra wagonload of supplies , which placed us in a position to move again immediately . 
By this time we had hunted the Rift Valley thoroughly . 
During the seven days since we had left Kijabe , the expedition had roped and photographed a cheetah , a serval cat , a hartebeest , an eland , and a wart hog . 
The consultation ended with the unanimous decision to start for the Sotik at dawn . 
In the October number Mr. Scull will relate the adventures of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition in Lassoing Giraffe and Rhinoceros . 
THE WOMEN OF TO MORROW page part . 
By WILLIAM HARD II THIS IS A VERY IMPORTANT SUBJECT . 
which you usually oblige an author to expend on enticing you into reading his article . 
Think how much time you save by walking straight into the tent and observing that THE First International Congress on Domestic Science and Arts was held in at Freiburg in Switzerland . 
It as no improvised amateur uplift , private theatricals affair . 
The head of the organizing committee was M. Python , president of Freiburg's State Council . 
Seventy two papers on technical topics were printed and circulated beforehand . 
The participating members numbered seven hundred . 
The discussions developed the characteristic points of the three rival breeds of household arts instruction the German , the Swiss , and the Belgian . 
Visits were made to the normal schools of Freiburg , Berne , and Zurich , in each of which there is an elaborate system for the training of household arts teachers . 
ever given in any age to the home's economic value . 
Certainly the revival of the home seems to attract larger crowds to the mourners' bench every year . 
At the University of Missouri the first crop of graduates in Home Economics was gathered this last spring . 
And as most of them took likewise a degree in Education , it may be assumed that they will go forth to spread the gospel . 
She took graduate work in the Department of Home Administration in the University of Chicago and achieved her doctorate with an investigation into The Effect of Cooling on the Digestibility of Starch . 
What she found out was subsequently printed as a bulletin by the United States Department of Agriculture . 
It is a wake like Mike McCarthy's . 
Mike was lookin' iligant As he rested there in state . 
But When the fun was at its height McCarthy sat up straight . 
goes on to say that the effect was great . 
So it has been in this case great enough to be felt all the way around the world . 
It is being felt in the Island Empire of the East . 
has installed courses in English domestic science as well as in the domestic science of Japan . 
It is being felt in the Island Empire of the West . 
four are graduates of the courses of academic study of Oxford or Cambridge . 
It is being felt in the United States at every educational level . 
It has cushioned the shock of the tidings from the University of California to the effect that entrance credit will this fall be given for high school domestic science work . 
that Columbia University , through its Teachers College , is offering courses in Elementary Cookery , in Shirt waists , in Domestic Laundering , and in Housewifery . 
Paul Monroe of Columbia , what am education ? Education am the palladium of our liberties and the grand pandemonium of civilization . 
But it does mean something , this Home Economics disturbance . 
AND SOMETHING VERY DIFFERENT FROM WHAT IT SEEMS TO . 
II Mr. Edward T. Devine . 
of the New York Charity Organization Society , has distinguished himself in the field of economic thought as well as in the field of active social reform . 
Among his works is a minute but momentous treatise on The Economic Function of Women . 
It is really a plea for the proposition that to day the art of consuming wealth is just as important a study as the art of producing it . 
We have used our brains while getting hold of money . 
We are going to use our brains while getting rid of it . 
We have studied banking , engineering , shop practice , cost systems , salesmanship . 
Mr. Devine ventures to hope that we may look for a radical improvement in general economic conditions from a wiser use of the wealth which we have chosen to produce . 
This enlarged view of the economic importance of Consumption brings with it a correspondingly enlarged view of the economic importance of the Home . 
Mr. Devine then lays out for the economist a task in the discharge of which the innocent bystander will sincerely wish him a pleasant trip and a safe return . 
Consumption has ceased to be merely PASSIVE and has become ACTIVE . 
It has ceased to be mere ABSORPTION and has become CHOICE . 
The scales fall from our eyes now and we see at least one thing which we had not seen before . 
We had supposed that sewing and cooking were the vitals of the Home Economics movement . 
without depriving the Home Economics movement of any considerable part of its driving power . 
Sewing and cooking are productive processes . 
They add economic value to certain commodities namely , cloth and food . 
But it is not Production , it is Consumption , which the Home Economics movement is at heart devoted to . 
This is plainly set forth by some of its most zealous workers . 
Women will train themselves for their duties as consumers or else continue to lie under the sentence of condemnation pronounced upon them by Florence Nightingale . 
Three fourths of the mischief in women's lives , said she , arises from their excepting themselves from the rule of training considered necessary for men . 
But what , in this case , is the training proposed ? The answer to that question will cause some more scales to fall from our eyes . 
Home Economics will not narrow women's education but in the end will enlarge it , because Consumption , instead of being a specialty , is a generality so broad as almost to glitter . 
III AT Menomonie , Wisconsin , Mr. L. D. Harvey , lately president of the National Education Association , has established a Homemakers' School . 
It does not turn out teachers . 
Its course of instruction is solely for the prospective housewife . 
The first grand division of study is The House . 
It is thought that knowledge of this sort will go a long way toward improving the health conditions of the country . 
We also observe that the housewife is going to be something of an Interior Decorator , since she studies design , color , house planning and furnishing . 
The second grand division is Food Study and Preparation . 
Of course , in her work in cookery , she pays some attention to special cookery for invalids . 
The fourth grand division , the Care of Children , is of course limitless . 
The rearing of the human young is , as we all know and as Mr. Eliot of Harvard has insisted , the most intellectual occupation in the world . 
, we come to the wide expanse of the sixth grand division , Home and Social Economics . 
Note that last fact carefully . 
Home Economics is no attempt to drive women back into home seclusion . 
On the contrary , it is an attempt to bring the home and its occupants into the scientific and sociological developments of the outside world . 
Seventhly and lastly , there is a division dedicated to Literature , in which a systematic course in reading is carried on through the two years . 
Which brings us back to the observation that the Consumption of Wealth is a generality . 
It follows that her school discipline cannot be too comprehensive . 
No other occupation demands such breadth of sense and sensibility . 
One could make a perfectly good cotton manufacturer on the basis of a very narrow training . 
One cannot make a good consumer without a really LIBERAL EDUCATION . 
For this reason it becomes necessary to resist certain narrownesses in certain phases of Home Economics . 
One of these narrownesses is the assumption that because a thing happens to be close to us it is therefore important . 
We have heard lecturers insist that because a house contains drain pipes a woman should learn all about drain pipes . 
But why ? In most communities drain pipes are installed and repaired and in every way controlled by gentlemen who are drain pipe specialists . 
Another possible narrowness is the attempt to manufacture cultural backgrounds for various important but quite safe and sane household tasks . 
on The House we have sometimes observed elaborate accounts of the evolution of the human home , beginning with the huts of the primitive Simianians . 
Now we would not for the world speak disparagingly of looms or huts . 
We have ourselves examined some of them in the Hull House Museum in Chicago and in the woods of Canada , and have found them instructive . 
The real metal in it is its attempt to establish the principle that intelligent Consumption is an important and difficult task . 
For that reason it will not only desire but demand the utmost equality of educational opportunity . 
is the soul nourished elsewhere . 
Whether that elsewhere is the deep recesses of her own religious nature or the wide stretches of the great arts and sciences , it is always an elsewhere . 
Let that be granted , as it must be granted . 
Let us say that there shall be no abridgment of the offerings of so called academic education . 
What does a course of study like that of Mr. Harvey's Homemakers' School attempt to add to academic education ? Principally three things . 
Second Certain domestic applications of the physical and sociological sciences . 
The last of these three things is appearing in many places . 
At the University of Chicago , in the Department of Household Administration , Course is on The Administration of the House and includes the proper apportionment of income . 
The business man says My sales cost , or my manufacturing cost , or my office force cost , is such and such a per cent . 
Shall we come to the day when in spending the money which has been earned in business we shall say Such and such a per cent . 
to food and such and such a per cent . 
to clothes and such and such a per cent . 
to shelter and such and such a per cent . 
to health and recreation and such and such a per cent . 
to good works and such and such other per cents . 
But it is not only a matter of reaching a systematic instead of a helter skelter enjoyment of the offerings of the world . 
It is also a matter of reaching , by study of money values , a mental habit of economy . 
And it comes at a time when that habit is needed . 
We are just beginning to realize in the United States that we cannot spend all our annual earnings on living expenses and still have a surplus for fresh capital for new industrial enterprises . 
We are on the point of perceiving that we are cramping and stunting the future industrial expansion of the country by our personal extravagance . 
We shall soon really believe Mr. James J. Hill when he says that every dollar unprofitably spent is a crime against posterity . 
We find ourselves agreeing rather with the Home Economics lecturer who said There never yet was a family income really wisely expended without cooperation in all matters between husband and wife . 
The Massachusetts legislature has passed a law looking toward the teaching of Thrift in the public schools . 
Boys and girls need it equally . 
It will not be , to any great extent , a specialized education for women . 
So much for the Money Sense in Expenditure which a full Home Economics course adds to academic education . 
The more we admit its value , the more convinced we must be that it ought to include every kind of expenditure and both kinds of human being . 
A precisely similar conviction arises with regard to those domestic applications of the physical and sociological sciences which a full Home Economics course adds to an academic education . 
Those domestic applications are most of them broadly human applications . 
They bear on daily living , exercise , fresh air , personal cleanliness , diet , sleep , the avoidance of contagion , methods of fighting off disease , general physical efficiency . 
They all amount to what Mrs. Ellen H. Richards calls Right Living . 
She would have four R's instead of three Reading , Riting , Rithmetic , and Right Living . 
Now is Right Living to be only for girls ? Mr. Eliot of Harvard does not think so . 
A large part of Home Economics is simply Living Conditions . 
It is simply the lessons of Bacteriology , Chemistry , Physiology , and Sociology about the common facts of daily physical and social existence . 
It may very well be , therefore , that what Mr. Eliot had in mind will not only come to pass but will even exceed his expectations . 
We revert now finally to the manual arts which a full course in Home Economics adds to an academic education . 
A reasonable proficiency in manual arts will some day be the heritage of all educated people . 
Mr. Eliot , in his Survey of the Needs of Education , speaks appreciatingly of his father's having caused him to learn carpentry and wood turning . 
It follows , then , that cooking and sewing for girls in the elementary schools must be made just as rigorous a discipline for eye and hand as wood working is for boys . 
It even follows that boys and girls will often get their manual training together . 
It will not be a case of household drudgery for the girls while the boys are studying civics . 
the reader will find a picture of the living room of the model house of the Washington Allston Elementary School in Boston . 
The boys and girls of graduating grade in that school give four hours a week to matters connected with the welfare of that house . 
They have furnished it throughout with their own handiwork , the girls making pillow cases , wall coverings , window curtains , etc . 
, and the boys making chairs , tables , cupboards , etc . 
Succeeding classes will furnish it again . 
IV LAST month's article ended with the inquiry whether the new education for homemaking would clash seriously with the modern young woman's necessary education for money earning . 
We conclude that it will not . 
Such developments as the long , specialized , four year course in Household Economics at Simmons College in Boston are not here in point . 
That Simmons course is more than an education for home making . 
a dietitian in a hospital , or a manager of a lunch room , or an interior decorator . 
Our subject is not Home Economics as a money earning occupation for a few women , but Home Economics as part of the education of all women . 
This is undeniably true , provided our observations have been correct that . 
Home Economics is at heart Consumption , and must be so because the home woman is more and more purely a consumer . 
Consumption is the broadest of generalities , requiring the broadest of liberal educations . 
So far as manual arts are concerned , the non academic cookery of the girl is balanced by the non academic carpentry of the boy . 
Right Living and Wise Spending will , to a great extent , get diffused throughout the whole educational system for boys and girls , men and women , alike . 
she will get it in continuation schools for adults to which she may resort when she is actually going to be a wife , mother , or home maker . 
are still unmarried is usually put down to a scarcity of men . 
Observe the comparative numbers of unmarried women and of unmarried men in that age period in Boston Unmarried Women , Unmarried Men , . 
Observe further The total number of men of all conjugal conditions in the age period in question is , . 
Social conditions in rural communities tend to approach those of urban communities . 
Social conditions in the West tend to approach those in the East . 
Continuation School instruction in Home Economics for engaged and married women is a form of education beginning to appear in every part of the world . 
But it lies beyond the woman's period of money earning . 
XXIII October No. THE WOMEN OF TO MORROW page part . 
By WILLIAM HARD III LOVE DEFERRED Mary felt she would wait for John even if , instead of going away on a career , he were going away on a comet . 
Into why she waited , and why she wouldn't wait any longer , chance put most of the simple plot of the commonplace modern drama , Love Deferred . 
It is so commonplace that it is doubtful if any other drama can so stretch the nerves or can so draw from them a thin , high note of fine pain . 
We will pretend that John was a doctor . 
No , that's too professional . 
He was a civil engineer . 
That's professional enough and more commercial . 
It combines Technique and Business , which are the two big elements in the life of Modern Man . 
When they got engaged , Mary was through college , but John had one more year to go in engineering school . 
The present professors require three years . 
In the Harvard Medical School made you attend classes for four months in each of three years . 
It now makes you do it for nine months in each of four years . 
This gave him a few Business courses in the College of Commerce in addition to his regular Technique courses in the College of Engineering . 
He was now a Bachelor of Science . 
He thereupon became an apprentice in the shops of one of the two biggest electrical firms in the United States . 
He inspected the assembling of machines before they were shipped , and he overheard wisdom from foremen and superintendents . 
His salary was fifteen cents an hour . 
Since he worked about ten hours a day , his total income was about forty dollars a month . 
At the end of the year he was raised to fifty . 
This was the normal raise for a Bachelor of Science . 
The graduates of Yale and Harvard in the bright colonial days of those institutions married almost immediately on graduation . 
He didn't get married so early nor become a widower so often . 
He didn't carry so many children to the christening font nor so many to the cemetery . 
Look at the dark as well as the bright side of colonial days . 
Pick out any of the early Harvard classes . 
Honestly and truly at random , run your finger down the column and pick any class . 
The class of ! It had eleven graduates . 
One of them remained a bachelor . 
Don't be too severe on him . 
He died at twenty four . 
Of the remaining ten , four were married twice and two were married three times . 
For ten husbands , therefore , there were eighteen wives . 
Mr. G. Stanley Hall , President of Clark University , very competently remarks The problem of superfluous women did not exist in those days . 
They were all needed to bring up another woman's children . 
The ten husbands of the Harvard class of , with their eighteen wives , had seventy one children . 
They did replenish the earth . 
They also filled the churchyards . 
TWENTY ONE OF THOSE SEVENTY ONE CHILDREN DIED IN CHILDHOOD . 
This left fifty to grow up . 
It was an average of five surviving children for each of the ten fathers . 
But it was an average of only . 
for each of the eighteen mothers . 
In commending the colonial family one must make an offset for the unfair frequency with which it had more than one wife and mother to help out its fertility record . 
And in commending the era of young wives and numerous children one must make an offset for the hideous frequency with which it killed them . 
Turn from Harvard to Yale . 
Look at the men who graduated from to . 
The girls they took in marriage were most of them under twenty one and were many of them down in their 'teens , sometimes as far down as fourteen . 
May we observe that they were not taken in marriage out of a conscious sense of duty to the Commonwealth and to Population ? They were taken because they were needed . 
He lost money if he wasn't domestic . 
Our young engineering friend , John , when HE looked forward to HIS future domestic establishment , saw no industrial machines in it at all except a needle and a saucepan . 
Consequently he had very little real use for a wife . 
What he wanted was money enough to give Mary a home . 
Marriages are more uncertain now . 
And fewer of them are marriages of mere convenience . 
It is both a worse and a better state of things . 
On the one hand , John didn't marry Mary so soon . 
On the other hand , he was prevented from wanting anything in his marriage except just Mary . 
Those Yale husbands lost wives before full middle age . 
Eight children born within twelve years , two of them feeble minded . 
First wife died at nineteen , leaving three children . 
First wife died at twenty eight , having borne eight children in ten years . 
marrying and of a settled determination to keep on living . 
The women's colleges are so new and they attracted in their early days so un average a sort of girl that their records are not conclusive . 
) In , Smith College , in its first ten classes , had graduated women . 
In , fifteen years later , among those women there were who were still single . 
This record does not satisfy Mr. G. Stanley Hall , who figured it out . 
The remaining facts , however , might be considered more cheering The Smith women who had married had borne children . 
This was two for each of them . 
And most of them were still in their childbearing period . 
Compare this with the colonial records . 
But don't take the number of children per colonial father . 
We have the matrimonial histories of colonial Yale and Harvard men grouped and averaged according to the decade in which they graduated . 
We will regard the graduates of each decade as together constituting one case . 
In no case does the average number of children per wife go higher than . 
In one case it goes as low as . 
In the year , among all the Smith graduates in those first ten classes , only twenty four had died . 
And among all the children , only twenty six had died . 
This deplorable flippancy would overlook the serious fact that permanent or even prolonged celibacy on the part of large numbers of young men and young women is a great social evil . 
The consequences of that evil we shall observe later on . 
In speaking about celibacy we refer wholly to secular and not at all to religious celibacy . 
In the meantime we return to John and Mary . 
While John was doing his last year in engineering school , Mary did a year of technical study in the New York School of Philanthropy , or in the St . 
Louis School of Social Economy , or in the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy , or in the Boston School for Social Workers . 
They won't even let you start in doing good nowadays without some training for it . 
This is wise , considering how much harm doing good can do . 
But how the preparation for life does lengthen itself out ! Mary took a civil service examination and got a job with the State Bureau of Labor . 
She finished her first year with the Bureau at the same time when John finished his first year with the electrical firm . 
There were several hundred other apprentices in the shops along with John . 
I must get out of the ruck , he said to himself . 
I must get a specialty . 
I must do some more preparing . 
He began to perceive how long it takes the modern man to grow up , intellectually and financially . 
He began to perceive what a tedious road he must travel before he could arrive at maturity and Mary ! But he had pluck . 
I'll really prepare , he said , and then I'll really make good . 
A western university offered a scholarship of a year , the holder of which would be free to devote himself to a certain specified technical subject . 
It was a good subject , commercially . 
He was to have a salary of , a year . 
One thousand dollars ! Millions of married couples live on less than that . 
But John didn't even think of asking Mary to share it with him . 
Mary , when married , was to be supported in approximate accordance with the standards of the people John knew . 
Every John thinks that about it , without really thinking about it at all . 
How much money would John want to spend on her before he would take her ? It made her feel like a box of candy in a store window . 
Still , a social standard is a fact . 
Just as much so as if it could be laid off with a tape . 
And there is sense in it . 
existent in real life in one of the large American cities R J . 
Only man she was ever real sweet on was a teamster . 
When she was selling in the perfumes at five a week he used to take her to the picnics of the Social Dozen Pleasure Club . 
They would practice the Denver Lurch on Professor DeVere's dancing platform . 
At midnight he would give her a joy ride home in his employer's delivery wagon . 
He still drives that wagon . 
She is in charge of suits and costumes and has several assistant buyers under her . 
She has bought a cottage for her father , who is an ingrain weaver in a carpet factory . 
She wears a stick pin recently presented to her by her teamster . 
I like him all right , is her notion about it , but I ought to have took him ten years ago . 
Now he can't support me . 
Makes twelve dollars a week as a manicurist . 
Thinks a man ought to have at least thirty dollars a week before marrying . 
Sister of S V , who doesn't think much of her . 
She works in a paper box factory at five dollars a week and is engaged to a glove cutter who makes eleven . 
Thinks women ought to be paid as much as men . 
Then they wouldn't be so ready to marry ANYBODY . 
Works in the cloak department . 
Makes about eighteen dollars a week . 
Says that most of the men she knows who could support her would certainly get in a terrible row at home if they married a cloak department girl . 
But I don't care let it run awhile . 
I was born in the steerage . 
I've been right where the money isn't . 
I'm not taking any chances on getting there again . 
Engaged to clerk who earns thirteen . 
Says Of course I'm not earning much , but I'm living with my folks and when we're married I'll have to give up a lot of things . 
Kinda wish I hadn't got used even to the seven . 
This last case , of the bookkeeper engaged to the clerk , is the modern situation at its happiest normal . 
The modern marriage , except among the rich , is a contraction of resources . 
It is just the reverse , in that respect , of the colonial marriage . 
The colonial bride , marrying into Industry , brought her full economic value to her husband . 
The modern bride , marrying out of Industry , leaves most of her economic value behind . 
And the greater that value was , the sharper is the shock of the contraction of resources . 
Of course , the case of the department store buyer and the teamster is irrelevantly extreme . 
Except in response to a grande passion she will not again drop below it . 
She will bring up her children at a point as close to her present level as she can . 
Meanwhile , she isn't married . 
But what can you do about it ? She went to work , like almost every other working woman , because she had to . 
And you can't pass a law prohibiting her from earning more than five dollars a week . 
It's all economic , thought Mary . 
She had much reason for thinking so . 
Dear rye , hard living conditions number of marriages drops . 
The fluctuations are strictly proportional . 
In the twenty sixth year , given the price of rye , you could predict very closely the number of marriages . 
It's the easiest thing in the world to predict the number of men and women who will next year decide to take their own lives . 
The marriage rate responds not only to the economic conditions of a whole country but to the economic conditions of its various parts . 
Between the ages of twenty five and thirty in Vermont , there will be out of every , of you who will still be single . 
But you live in the state of New York . 
Between the ages of twenty five and thirty there will be of you out of every thousand who will still be single . 
A difference of in every , . 
It would be more adroit simply to urge them to live in Vermont . 
Compare them in this marriage matter Among all the wives in the South Central states , there are out of every , who are under thirty five years of age . 
Among all the wives in the North Atlantic states those who are under thirty five years of age are , in each thousand , only . 
In the South Central states , . 
In the North Atlantic states , . 
A difference of ! Getting married early is imputed unto us for actual personal righteousness by innumerable clergymen , essayists , and editorial writers . 
You can't escape , in any numbers , from the law which reigns in your vicinity . 
Live on the Gold Coast of Africa . 
Which you will be in a day or two . 
Live in Russia , and if you're a girl you'll get married before you're twenty in more than fifty cases out of a hundred . 
It's the most primitive of civilized countries . 
It's half way between Africa and , say , Rhode Island . 
These marriages before twenty tend to fall off rapidly in a rapidly developing industrial region like Rhode Island . 
In the married persons in Rhode Island who had married before they were twenty were twenty one in every . 
In they were only nine in every . 
But belong to the class of people that professional men come from Your age at marriage will be , on the average , twenty six . 
This difference exists also in the United States . 
It is in the direct line of social and economic development . 
The professional man is a farther developed type of man than the miner . 
It takes him longer to get through his educational infancy longer to arrive at his mental and financial maturity . 
The professional man's wife is a farther developed type than the miner's wife . 
The United States , except possibly in certain sections , has not come to the end of its growth toward postponed marriage . 
It is true that in Massachusetts , within the past forty five years , the average age of women at marriage has risen from . 
That is a very modern and developed marriage age . 
But many of the older countries surpass it . 
In Belgium , for instance , which is a most intensely industrialized country , the average age of women at marriage is . 
Early marriage was made by economic advantages . 
It was destroyed by economic changes . 
It will not be restored except by economic adjustments . 
Nevertheless , said Mary , I want John . 
John had finished being engineer for the electric railway company . 
Out of his two years' experience he had saved a few hundred dollars . 
The way he made his start into the next phase of his career was not by having any ready money . 
Having ready money is far from being characteristic of the young man of to day . 
John opened his office as a consulting electrical engineer not on his own resources but as an agent for an electrical supply company . 
Being agent for that company assured him enough money to pay the office rent and stenographer . 
For the rest , for his meals and his bed , he depended on his clients . 
But he started out to get them . 
He opened his office in the city in which Mary was . 
And then a strange but normal thing occurred . 
They spent enough money on theatres and boat rides and candy in the next three months to have paid the rent on a flat . 
It is true John's net income was too small and uncertain to have justified the founding of a family . 
But it was also true that they spent every cent they had . 
The celibate life is an extravagant life . 
One of the innumerable sources of modern extravagance is found just there . 
And she began to see other things she didn't like in this protraction of the period of singleness . 
Her work for the Bureau of Labor had taken her into many places , among all sorts of women . 
She began to observe the irregular living which is inevitably associated with a system of late marriages . 
The male , to begin with , had only one function . 
That was to be a male . 
He was purely a sex thing . 
Whether this biological theory stands or falls , it is certain that it squares with the present character of the sexes . 
The sex which originated as a sex thing remains the more actively sexed . 
There was once a very good sociologist called Robert Louis Stevenson who made many researches into the psychology of the human race . 
But there is this about some women , that they suffice to themselves and can walk in a high and cold zone without the countenance of any trousered being . 
The celibate life is more possible for most of them by nature . 
If it were not for that fact , the postponement of marriage would by this time have demolished the ethical code . 
Even as things stand , Mary was quite willing to admit , when she saw it , that there are two kinds of women greatly increasing in modern days . 
Both have always existed , but now they are increasing very rapidly and in parallel lines of corresponding development . 
In one column is the enormous army of young women who remain unmarried till twenty five , till thirty , till thirty five . 
Love , denied at the front door , flies in by the cellar window . 
Angel or bat , it is always with us . 
Our only choice is between its guises . 
It was surely unnatural , for the mass of them . 
They were not vowed nuns . 
They were not devoted to any Great Cause . 
They were just ordinary , normal young women , thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of them . 
Yet on them was squandered the emotional life of millions of young men . 
On the one side intelligent , capable , effective young women , leading lives of emotional sterility . 
The great Russian scientist , Metchnikoff , successor to Pasteur in the Pasteur Institute , mentions the postponement of marriage as one of the biological disharmonies of life . 
It is a disharmony that among highly civilized peoples marriage and REGLULAR unions are impossible at the RIGHT TIME . 
He goes on to make , without comment , a statement of the economic facts of the case . 
He cannot found a family at the right time . 
Then , later on , he may begin to get a larger income . 
Then marriage may become more feasible . 
But then romance is waning . 
Then , as Mr. Johnson says , his standard of personal comfort rises . 
Romance has been succeeded by calculation . 
Accordingly he postpones marriage to a date in the indefinite future or abandons expectation of it altogether . 
Celibacy through the age of romance ! It's emotionally wrong . 
Sexlessness for a score of years after sex has awakened ! It's biologically wrong . 
It's a defiance of nature . 
And nature responds , as she does to every defiance , with a scourge of physical and social ills . 
But what of all that ? thought Mary . 
Those things are just observations . 
What I am going to act on is that I want John . 
At which point she stopped being a typical modern young woman . 
SHE BECAME A WOMAN OF THE FUTURE . 
Look here , she said to John , I'm working . 
Have we lost anything ? And we've gained each other . 
Two years later she stopped working . 
In those two years she had helped John to start a home . 
She couldn't operate soap kettles and candle molds and looms and smokehouses and salting tubs and spinning wheels for him . 
But she brought him an equivalent of it in money . 
She earned from to a year . 
Being married , they were more thrifty . 
They saved a large part of her earnings . 
John was still spending a large part of his on extending his business , on traveling , on entertaining prospective clients , on making acquaintances . 
Sometimes she had to contribute some of her own money to his expense accounts . 
That was the fortune of war . 
She helped him pursue success . 
I wouldn't give up the memory of these two years , Mary used to say , as she sat and stitched for her children , for anything . 
I shared at least a part of my husband's youth . 
By sharing it , she won a certain happiness otherwise unattainable . 
It used to take two to start a home in colonial days , Mary would say . 
I am really an old fashioned woman . 
I helped to make this home . 
We had twelve hundred dollars in the bank when I stopped working , and John was pretty well established . 
I don't regret it , she went on , still speaking as a woman of the future , even for the children . 
Of course I do wish we had started earlier . 
But I would have wanted to wait a while for the children in any case . 
As for the number of children she will have we reserve that subject to a future article . 
And this That Mary got to her childbearing period sooner than she would have if she hadn't insisted on marrying John before he was ready to support her . 
Those two years would have been childless years in any case . 
But they would probably , if it hadn't been for Mary's money , have been lengthened into four or five . 
Of course , later marriages in themselves tend to reduce the number of children . 
As to quality , however , the evidence is not clear . 
There is even some reason to think that a moderate postponement is conducive to an improvement in quality . 
There has been a notable deficiency of young fathers and , still more notably , of young mothers . 
In mental ability the children of young parents show best at an early age but rapidly lose their precocity . 
The elder children who show best tend to be the children of mature and old parents . 
The children of elderly mothers show a tendency to superiority throughout . 
Every woman , said Mary , ought to have some little time for developing into an individual . 
Home won't do it altogether . 
The colonial home did , being part of the working world . 
But what is the modern home ? It is a nest , an eddy , a shelf , a nook . 
It's something apart from the world . 
There's no getting away from that . 
A reasonable postponement of motherhood till the future mother becomes a competent individual is a good thing . 
The trouble about that , said John , is that it makes you too independent of me . 
Your proposition is to start in and earn your living till you're pretty good at it . 
That is , you wouldn't marry me till you were sure you could chuck me . 
How about that ? Well , it has that side . 
But it has its other side , too . 
And I should want her wings to be strong , and I should want her to know that if she went through the door she could fly . 
For keeping her , said Mary , I should want to trust to my own wings and not to bars . 
However , said Mary , going farther into the future , the process isn't complete . 
Freedom is not yet completely acquired . 
Children ! We want them ! We must have them ! Yet how often they tie us to unions which have come to be unholy , vile , full of all uncleanness . 
Mr. H. G. Wells is clearly right about it . 
When women bear children they perform a service to the state . 
Children are important to the state . 
They are its future life . 
To leave them to the eccentricities of the economic fate of the father is ridiculous . 
The woman who is bringing up children should receive from the state the equivalent of her service in a regular income . 
And we can't dream it out in detail . 
But when it comes it won't come out of personal sentiment . 
It will come because of being demanded by the economic welfare of the community . 
It will come because it is the best way to get serviceable children for the state . 
It will come because , after all , it is the final answer to the postponement of marriage . 
In the November instalment of The Women of To morrow , Mr. Hard will discuss The Wasters . 
ROMANCE revels in the peril of the unknown . 
Lapped about with the armor plate of civilization , the modern citizen muses relishingly , like a child beguiling himself with ogre tales , upon the terrors which lie just beyond his ken . 
To his mind , A stone's throw out on either hand , And all the world is wild and strange . 
Avid for sensation , he peoples the remoteness of forest and mountain with malign and destructive creatures , whence has grown up an extensive and astonishing literature of snake and insect poison lore . 
Deadly is the master word of the cult . 
The copperhead and moccasin are deadly . 
So is the wholly mythical puff adder . 
In hardly less degree is the tarantula deadly , while varying lethal capacities are ascribed to the centipede , the scorpion , the kissing bug , and sundry other forms of insect life . 
The whole matter is based upon the slenderest foundations . 
I don't mean , by this , that these ill famed species are wholly innocuous . 
It would be highly inadvisable to snatch a kiss from a copperhead or to stroke a tarantula's fur the wrong way . 
But one could do it and live to boast of the achievement . 
Pseudoscience to the contrary notwithstanding , there is no living thing within the boundaries of the United States of America whose bite or sting is sure death or even probable death . 
There are five varieties of venomous serpents in this country three of them Crotalids , and two belonging to the Elaps family . 
The Elaps are rather rare . 
are common , and of the widest geographical distribution . 
Estimates vary as to the proportion of deaths to bites . 
Prentiss Willson believes that something over ten per cent . 
of all persons bitten by venomous snakes in the United States die . 
S. Weir Mitchell's figures indicate . 
This would make the venom about as dangerous as the toxin of typhoid fever , which is not generally regarded as a necessarily deadly disease . 
Other writers go as high as fifteen per cent . 
for the rattlesnake and as low as one per cent . 
All general estimates seem to me to leave one basic element out of consideration the unnoted , non fatal snake bites . 
That a bite resulting in death will eventually get itself reported is reasonably certain . 
Were all these to be recorded , I believe that the mortality ratio would fall notably . 
Although I have been interested in the subject for many years , I have never met a man who has seen a fatal case of snake bite . 
J. A. Mitchell , of Victoria , Texas , one of the most experienced of field observers , has never met with an instance of fatality from this cause . 
Mitchell believes that horses always , and dogs almost always , recover from rattlesnake bite . 
He confirms , from observation , the mysterious fact that hogs exhibit absolute immunity from the venom . 
SNAKEBITE Be it remembered always that death following snake bite is not necessarily the same thing as death from snake bite . 
Error in treatment plays no small part in vitiating the statistics . 
Whoever is primarily responsible for the hoary superstition that liquor in huge doses is useful in snake poisoning has many a life to answer for . 
It is a question whether alcohol should ever be given in such cases without the advice of a physician . 
Certain it is that it should not be poured into the victim in quantities limited only by the flask contents of the bystanders . 
Several years ago I saw two interestingly contrasted cases of copperhead bite . 
The first patient was a powerful , full blooded , temperate , Irish day laborer who , while road mending , was bitten on the back of the hand between two fingers . 
His fellows hustled him off to a room over a neighboring saloon , where they proceeded to administer the classic treatment . 
Before the doctor arrived they had introduced a quart and a half of whisky into a stomach unused to anything stronger than beer in small quantities . 
Six hours later , when I saw the man through the wreckage of chairs , tables , and bedding , four battered friends were trying to hold him down . 
They thought he was having convulsions from the snake venom . 
He was having delirium tremens from the whisky . 
His arm and shoulder were purple and swollen . 
Will he die ? I asked the doctor . 
He won't die of the bite , but I think he will of the whisky , replied the disgusted practitioner . 
His splendid physique pulled him through . 
It was long , however , before he wholly recovered from the effects of the two poisons . 
This was in a Hudson River town . 
Only a few miles away a negro boy , shortly after , was struck by a copperhead on the bare leg . 
The wound was a deep , double fanged puncture . 
While the boy's father rushed for whisky , his mother ran for the doctor . 
The doctor got there first . 
He opened up the wound and rubbed in permanganate of potash to oxidize the venom and destroy its toxic properties . 
When I talked with the boy , two days later , he was hobbling about on a crutch , and the swelling had almost subsided . 
, we have a fairly illustrative instance of the relative merits of alcoholic and non alcoholic measures . 
WHEN RATTLESNAKES KILL Thirteen cases of death following rattlesnake and copperhead bite in which satisfactory clinical data were obtainable , are given by Prentiss Willson . 
It did in twenty four hours . 
Of the remaining five , three were dosed with alcohol in large quantities . 
Two of the fatalities were attributed , not immediately to the venom , but to the secondary blood poisoning , this being the case with the only copperhead bite in the list . 
Post , into whose veins , it would appear , the poison entered immediately , since a jet of blood spurted from the wound inflicted by the captive rattlesnake . 
The man passed from great agony into coma , from which he never rallied , death ensuing in five hours after the bite . 
In the matter of the comparative potency of snake poisons , there are apparent contradictions . 
In the order of recorded fatalities , the rattlesnake ranks easily first , with the water moccasin a rather distant second , and the copperhead a very poor third . 
Yet experiments upon animals indicate that moccasin venom is five times as powerful as rattlesnake , though only three times as powerful as copperhead . 
NO VIPERS IN THIS COUNTRY Fully as much terror attaches , in the country districts , to the puff adder or sand viper as to the rattlesnake or copperhead . 
What passes for the supposedly deadly reptile is the common hog nosed or bull snake . 
It is about as dangerous as an infuriated rabbit . 
But it puts up one of the best bluffs known to natural history . 
Then , when the objects of its fury have taken to trees or adjacent fences , it glides quietly away into the grass and effaces itself . 
Any one who has the nerve to look it between the eyes may uncover its pretense . 
For by this token may be known the real Crotalids from the mock a small but distinct pit between eye and nostril . 
Lacking this mark , no ventral crawler in the land of the free need cause a flutter in the most timid breast , with one notable exception . 
BEWARE THE ELAPS Shun , as you would a rabid dog , a pretty little red and black banded serpent about as thick as your thumb . 
If any living creature whose habitat is the United States deserves the epithet deadly , it is the Elaps . 
, and partly to its lethargic and peaceful disposition . 
Experimenters wishing to secure the venom of the Elaps often find it difficult to rouse the snake to striking wrath . 
Very few instances are known of Elaps bite , but those few unquestionably set this ornamental creature in a class by itself , among American Ophidia , for results . 
Out of eight well authenticated cases of Elaps bite , six of the victims died . 
This is believed to indicate a falsely large percentage , however , the scientific estimate of mortality being somewhere between twenty five and fifty per cent . 
A government scientist tells me of a curious result from coral snake bite which came under his notice . 
The man soon became unconscious , but rallied , and , after three days of dubious condition , recovered . 
Every year since , at about the anniversary of the bite , an ulcer forms upon the finger and the nail sloughs off . 
I have heard of similar recurrent effects from crotaline poisoning , but none scientifically attested , as is this phenomenon . 
Before passing from the subject of snakes , let me make one point clear . 
The bitten person should get to a physician at once . 
The immediate treatment is prompt incision and sucking of the wound . 
Permanganate of potash for rubbing into the bitten place should always be carried by persons traveling in a snake infested country . 
If the bite is on a limb , a light ligature will check the spread of the venom . 
Use whisky sparingly , if at all , and then only in case of complete collapse . 
The local treatments are most effective while the venom is still around the site of the bite , and will reduce the injurious effects considerably . 
But after half an hour or so the absorption of the venom becomes more general and the local treatments ineffective . 
When the venom once enters into general circulation no chemicals or medication can neutralize its effects , except a specific antivenin , such as has been prepared by Dr . 
Noguchi at the Rockefeller Institute in New York . 
Antivenin is the only antidote that can counteract the action of venom anywhere in the body . 
It finds the venom wherever it is present and neutralizes it there , without producing any ill effects on the system . 
GILA MONSTER NOT SO MONSTROUS Dissension and discussion have raged for years about the hideous head of the Gila monster . 
This great lizard of the Southwest has been pronounced absolutely deadly by one set of partisans , and absolutely harmless by another . 
Somewhere between lies the truth . 
If any human being has actually been bitten by a heloderma , the event has either escaped notice or has been so hedged about with obstructive legend as to have forfeited scientific credence . 
But the saurian itself has been studied and dissected , and its venom has been analyzed . 
The venom is related to snake poison , but is neither crotaline nor elapine . 
From animal experiments it is thought that it might be fatal to man under unfavorable conditions . 
There are no fangs proper . 
The Gila monster has the grip of a bulldog . 
Torture will not loosen its hold , once fastened on . 
It is through this intimate contact that the venom works into the wounds . 
Almost any kind of an insect bite or sting MAY prove fatal . 
So may a pin scratch , if the blood of the subject be in bad enough condition . 
There is a well substantiated case of a trained nurse who died from blood poisoning following a mosquito bite . 
Ant bite has resulted fatally , as has a single sting from the common wasp . 
No one , however , considers these everyday insects as deadly . 
But substitute scorpion for ant , and centipede for wasp , and shrieks of dismay rise from the general throat . 
Yet perhaps there is no other variety of harmful creature whose reputation rests upon so meager a foundation as that of these two . 
True , an El Paso report claims that a man stung by a whip scorpion died in twelve hours but the details are so vague as to be in a high degree unconvincing . 
L. B. Rowland , of Florida , says My wife has been stung several times by the common scorpion . 
It is like a wasp sting , only . 
THE SCORPION'S STING The Mexican scorpion enjoys an evil repute , which , from personal observation , I consider greatly exaggerated . 
Mr. White , in the process of disrobing , sat down upon a brown scorpion , an inch and a half long . 
The scorpion punctured Mr. White twice . 
They were chiefly surprise and indignation . 
Within half an hour he was asleep , and on the following day he was riding a mule . 
The scorpion , however , died . 
With respect to the centipede , satisfactory data are difficult to obtain . 
The boy , who had neither waked nor moved , showed absolutely no trace of the reptile's course . 
THE DEADLY TARANTULA IN PRINT The only direct evidence which has come to me regarding the bite of the hundred legged crawler was from an English naturalist whom I met in Venezuela . 
He was bitten on the ankle by a centipede nearly a foot long . 
So severe was the laceration that his sock was clotted with blood before he could get it off . 
The two punctures were marked . 
Almost immediately the ankle began to swell . 
The pain he describes as being equal to a bad toothache . 
It kept him awake all that night . 
He had some fever , which , however , he attributes rather to the loss of sleep than to any specific action of the poison , as there were no other general symptoms . 
In the morning the pain had abated a good deal , and he believes that he could have gone about his pursuits had he been able to get his sock and shoe on . 
He noted some discoloration about the wound . 
Late in the afternoon he was hobbling about . 
A week in a carpet slipper was the extent of disability which he suffered . 
On these evidences it would seem just , for the present , to set down the scorpion and the centipede as painful , rather than dangerous , assailants . 
Diseased imagination could invent no creature more horrific of appearance than the tarantula . 
No names were supplied a common phenomenon in this class of obituary notice . 
Search in the coroner's records failed to bring to light any case of the sort , and an exhaustive inquiry in the fruit district was equally unproductive . 
The report was a pure fake . 
Apparently of the same nature is the news story of a Californian who , presumably mistaking a tarantula for a fragrant floweret , was bitten on the nose and died in great agony . 
That , of course , is the proper way to die under such circumstances . 
They all do it in print . 
Now let us see about the agony . 
Herbert H. Smith , the naturalist and collector , saw a man bitten on the bare foot by a tarantula so hard as to draw blood . 
There was very little swelling , and the man paid no heed to the occurrence , but went on with his work . 
I have talked with a Southern Pacific Railroad fireman who was jabbed on the wrist by a large tarantula . 
Some years before , he had been stung on the cheek by a bald hornet . 
He wasn't inclined to make any choice between the two except that the tarantula looked a d sight more scary . 
He didn't let the bite interfere with his job , even for the day . 
On the other hand , Dr . 
This , however , was in Haiti . 
And even there , he believes , death never follows tarantula bite unless the subject is in a depleted state of resistance from blood disease or other cause . 
Under the heading Fatal Spider Bite there is a considerable and interesting newspaper bibliography . 
The details do not analyze well . 
For example , a young woman in Brooklyn awoke one morning to find a swollen spot on her body . 
On the bed was a spider . 
Some ten days later she died . 
For a long period she had been in ill health . 
Yet the death was credited to the spider , though specific symptoms of venomous poisoning were lacking . 
The instance of a young woman in an Eastern state is significant . 
Thrusting her foot into an old slipper , she felt a sharp jab upon the point of her index digit . 
Upon hasty removal of the footgear , she saw , or supposed she saw , a large and ferocious spider dart forth . 
This , to her mind , was evidence both conclusive and damning . 
The thoughtful will wonder , however , whether the lady wouldn't have got at the real root of the matter by cutting off her head instead of her toe . 
SPIDER HYSTERIA Imagination and terror undoubtedly account for certain general symptoms in this class of injury . 
Colonel Nicholas Pike , a competent observer , records a case of a man slapping his hand down upon a window sill and feeling a lively stab in the palm . 
At the same moment a small spider ran across the back of his fingers and was captured . 
There was a distinct puncture in the hand . 
Here , then , was a definite case , where the wound and the insect were both in evidence . 
But examination of the arachnid's fangs satisfied Colonel Pike that they were far too small and weak to penetrate the tough skin where the wound was . 
Meantime the victim exhibited the classic symptoms of venomous poisoning numbness , nausea , chills , and threatened collapse . 
A physician , being summoned , examined both the victim and the accused , and took Colonel Pike's view that the spider was innocent . 
The man was wrathful , with the indignation of terror . 
Thereupon the doctor opened up the wound and extracted a section of a fine needle . 
The other half was found sticking in the window sill where a careless seamstress had fixed it . 
The spider had been a fortuitous arrival . 
The man made one of the quickest recoveries recorded . 
THE RED SPOT DANGEROUS Strangely enough , the one really dangerous spider on the American continent is small , obscure , and practically unknown to popular or journalistic hysteria . 
Latrodectus mactans is its scientific name . 
It is about the size of a large pea , black with a red spot on the back a useful danger signal and spins a small web in outhouses or around wood piles . 
So far as is known , its poison is the most virulent and powerful , drop for drop , secreted by any living creature . 
Were this little known crawler as large as the common black hunting spider of our gardens and lawns , its bite would be almost invariably fatal . 
Nevertheless , fatalities consequent upon the bite of this insect are sufficiently well attested to take rank as established scientific facts . 
One of the most detailed comes from an intelligent farmer of Greensboro , North Carolina . 
A workman in his employ , while hauling wood , brushed at something crawling upon his neck and felt a sharp , stinging sensation . 
He found a small , black spider with a red spot . 
A. M. Presently , ten small white pimples appeared about the bitten spot , though no puncture was visible and there was no swelling . 
The pain soon passed , but returned in three hours and became general , finally settling in the abdomen and producing violent cramps . 
At one o'clock the man had a spasmodic attack . 
Two hours later he had so far recovered as to be able to go back to work , for an hour . 
Then the spasms took him again he sank into coma , and died between ten and eleven o'clock that evening , about fourteen hours after the bite . 
At no time were there local symptoms or swelling , other than the slight eruption , but the neck , left arm , and breast are reported as having assumed a stonelike hardness . 
The white pimples appeared in this case also . 
The negro recovered , but the eruption reappeared for years thereafter whenever he was overheated . 
Recoveries from Latrodectus bite are much more common , in the records , than deaths . 
Corson , of Savannah , Georgia , reports six cases , characterized by agonizing pains , spasmodic contractions like those of tetanus , and grave general symptoms . 
From Anaheim , California , a fatal case is reported by Dr . 
Bickford , death occurring twenty hours after the bite . 
Shortly after being bitten , he began to suffer great agony , with convulsive contractions of the muscles . 
The pains in my hip joints , chest , and thighs grew rapidly more violent , until it seemed that the bones in these parts of my body were being crushed to fragments . 
He was seriously ill for ten days . 
WORSE TEXAN THE DEADLY COPPERHEAD It may be that only under certain uncomprehended conditions is the venom of the Latrodectus effective . 
Inoculation of guinea pigs with the poison has been without any resultant symptoms . 
Scientific experimenters have suffered themselves to be bitten and have experienced no ill effects . 
The foreign cousins of the American species , however , have as evil a repute as the mactans . 
Only in America is there no popular fear of this really formidable little creature . 
Yet it is found in almost every part of the United States , though by no means one of the commoner spiders . 
In the past five years I have seen two specimens at my country place in central New York , and have heard of a dozen others . 
THE RISE OF THE KISSING BUG Years ago the United States Bureau of Entomology received from an exasperated clergyman in Georgia a dead insect , enclosed in this note Prof . 
Riley What is this devil ? He sailed down on my hedge . 
I took hold of his lone front leg , and as quick as lightning he speared me under my thumb nail and I dropped him . 
My thumb and whole arm are still paining me . 
from kissing bug bites in the year of enlightened civilization , , will never be known . 
The kissing bug is about half an inch in length , flat backed , shaped in geometrically regular angles , and armed with a large , hard beak . 
It is this beak which does the damage , for the kissing bug is a fighter and will risk a prod at anything that gives it cause of offense . 
Testimony is not lacking that it sometimes punctures the human epidermis with a view to obtaining blood at first hand instead of from its natural prey . 
But the curious feature of the kissing bug's bite is its after effect . 
Neither the southern Reduvius nor the northern Melanolestes possesses any venom apparatus . 
, duct , and poison gland , can no more envenom the object of its attack than a fish can kick a man to death . 
Yet we find such authorities as Dr . 
Le Conte , indeed , compares the effect to snake bite , and states that people are seriously affected for a week . 
A case is recorded from Holland , South Carolina , where there were vomiting and marked weakness . 
Mr. Schwartz , an expert of the Bureau of Entomology at Washington , was bitten twice upon the hand and testifies to the painful effects . 
In , when the species was very common in Washington , the Emergency Hospital had a long list of patients who appeared on the records under the heading , Insect Bite . 
Reports of fatal cases , however , invariably proved to be canards . 
For explanation of the marked local symptoms resultant upon attack by the insect , science has been hard put to it . 
The general symptoms , observed in a few cases , where violent , may probably be ascribed to shock and nervousness . 
But the marked swelling and pain cannot be thus dismissed . 
Not the least interesting phase of the kissing bug scare is the rapidity and completeness of its decadence . 
To day , both the Melanolestes and the conenose are abroad in the land . 
Doubtless , upon provocation , they are spearing others as they speared the outraged clergyman . 
The bepunctured ones do not seek the consolations of medical or journalistic attention . 
They put a little wet mud or peroxide on the place and let it go at that . 
Exit another bogy ! OUR REAL POISON PERIL One venomous creature there is in this country which may justly be termed a public peril , in the widest sense . 
Proportionately to population , more victims fall to it yearly in the United States than to the dreaded cobra in India . 
Some twelve thousand Americans are killed every year by its bite . 
Three hundred thousand more are made seriously ill from the after effects . 
Unfortunately , the virus works so slowly that alarm is stilled . 
The victims do not sicken at once . 
The bite is forgotten but ten days or two weeks after , the subject falls into a fever . 
His blood is poisoned within him . 
Eventually , in extreme cases , he becomes delirious , succumbs to a stupor , and dies . 
Exactly why this should have been it is impossible to tell . 
Perhaps the reason may be found in the fact that a considerable part of our time was occupied in moving . 
No doubt the circumstance could be traced to some such perfectly reasonable cause . 
But we chose to look upon it otherwise . 
The wide reaches of the African veldt have something to do with it , perhaps . 
These superstitions are temporary , local , and often purely personal affairs . 
Means , being a cowboy , believed that when he rode his big boned bay the drive would be successful . 
The native dog boy insisted that when the long eared bloodhound and the little white terrier were coupled together on the march , the rest of the pack would come through without mishap . 
Loveless swore by a particular piece of rope , and Mac which is short for Mohammed discovered propitious omens on every conceivable occasion . 
It was on the first day's march into the Kedong Valley that we had roped the wart hog . 
On the journey from Sewell's Farm to Rugged Rocks we had rounded up and photographed the eland . 
A general feeling of expectancy pervaded the entire safari when we broke camp at the Wangai River at dawn of a hazy morning . 
The smell of the burning veldt and the nearness of the fire lent an oppressive warmth to the still morning . 
You two boys had better carry your heavy ropes , the Colonel said at starting . 
We had finished with the Kedong and Rift valleys . 
We had hunted every corner of the district within striking distance of the water . 
And we had had success of a kind . 
Cheetah , eland , hartebeest , and serval cat we had roped and tied and photographed . 
But the really big game had so far escaped us . 
For the first ten miles of the march our way led across untraveled country , toward the two deep ruts in the veldt that were known as the wagon road . 
Curry was slight and round shouldered , with light yellow hair . 
His face was burned a bright red , excepting his nose , which was white where the skin was peeling . 
He had a peculiar , slow , drawling way of talking when he talked at all , which was seldom . 
Being an inhabitant of the district into which we were going , he was naturally subjected at first to a number of questions in regard to the big game there . 
Plenty of rhino in your part of the world , I suppose ? Y as , drawled Curry . 
And lion , too , I imagine ? Y as . 
Ought to get some giraffe on the way , hadn't we ? Y as . 
Rhino pretty scarce just now , though , aren't they ? Y as , Curry answered placidly . 
Thus it soon became apparent that Curry's chief ambition was to agree pleasantly with whatever anybody said , which tended to discredit any information he had to impart . 
So , as a matter of course , the questions ceased , and when no more were asked him Curry's conversation ceased also . 
It was rough going for the ox wagons those first ten miles , and they made slow time of it along the base of the hills . 
and myself rode in a widely extended line in front of the safari , sweeping the country for game . 
It was hot at the base of the hills so hot that when your bridle hand dropped inadvertently to the pommel of the saddle , the brass mounting there seemed to burn you . 
Then from out the blurred vista in front little by little a clump of comparatively large trees began to take definite shape . 
Another half mile farther , and we saw that something was moving among the trees as high up as the topmost branches . 
The Colonel and the two cowboys set off at a hand gallop in a vain attempt to round them up and drive them back to the cameras . 
The race was a hopeless one for the horsemen from the start . 
As noon approached , the heat became more and more oppressive . 
The cameras had been screwed to the tripods and covered with our coats to protect them from the sun . 
The horses grazed near by . 
It was too hot to talk it was too hot to sleep or think . 
And by and by the ox wagons came up , and the oxen brought the flies . 
Eventually , after a long time had passed , Means rode into the grove of trees , un heralded by Mac and alone . 
The bay horse had fallen badly , wrenching his rider's back where once he had been hurt before . 
Means took his saddle off , threw it on the ground , and sat on it . 
He dropped into a pig hole , he explained , an' hopped out again as neat as could be . 
But in hoppin' out he hopped into another , an' that just naturally discouraged him an' he come down with me . 
No comments were made , nor did Means expect any . 
But evidently he had considered it only justice to the bay that the mishap should receive from him the proper explanation . 
Then Loveless returned , also alone . 
He made a few grumbling remarks about its being all nonsense to run the horses to death when there was no chance at all . 
But as his listeners showed not the slightest interest in the matter , he , too , relapsed into silence . 
The Colonel was the last to come in . 
He rode straight to the tree where the company were gathered , dismounted , and sat down . 
Then he spoke to the world at large . 
They must be about here somewhere , he said . 
And being about here somewhere , we'll get 'em yet . 
When the shadow beneath the tree began to lengthen toward the east , the safari shook itself together and prepared to move on once more . 
But this time , instead of occupying his customary position at the head of the column , the Colonel lagged behind . 
Immediately after leaving the grove of trees , the road commenced to climb the first rises of the Mau escarpment . 
Kearton was riding with his head sunk on his chest like a sick man . 
Gobbet asked if anything was wrong with him . 
Nothing bad too much heat this morning , likely . 
Want to hunt a bit of shade and lie up awhile ? No , I'll go on . 
You're the judge , he said . 
Hill after hill stretched away in front to the one upstanding kopje that marked the top of the Mau . 
The district was wooded with small , twisted trees , and the fire had crossed here , so that the ground was black and the air smelled stronger of burning . 
I'd better wait till the Colonel comes along , he explained . 
The Colonel don't carry any weapons . 
Loveless stopped with him , and , as Ulyate was somewhere behind with the ox wagons and porters , this left Kearton , Gobbet , and myself to ride on by ourselves . 
For a mile or more the road lifted and dipped with monotonous regularity , and the burnt land was still on either hand , without a sign of life anywhere to be seen . 
The next instant Ulyate pulled up in a cloud of dust . 
Colonel wants you , he said . 
They've rounded up a giraffe . 
We wheeled the horses and started back on the run . 
About three miles ! Left of the road ! Ulyate shouted after us . 
There were various reasons that called for haste . 
We met the line of porters and they scattered right and left . 
Farther on , the ox teams crowded one side to give us room . 
Then we came upon the four special porters with the cameras . 
Kearton took his machine on the saddle with him , and Gobbet caught up the tripod from another pair of outstretched arms . 
When we reached the bit of clearing and looked to the left of the road , we saw the long neck and head of a giraffe sharply outlined against the sky . 
There was still enough light left for a picture , but Kearton was nearly done . 
Give him a minute's breather , said the Colonel . 
We'll hold the critter till he's ready . 
We took Kearton off his horse and stretched him on the ground and poured the lukewarm water from a canteen on his head . 
Meanwhile Cobbet screwed the camera to the tripod and set it up . 
By the time Gobbet had finished , Kearton was on his feet again . 
From his position near by , Means ventured the opinion that it was too much excitement that had knocked him over , and Kearton swore back at him pleasantly and went to work . 
The rest of the hunt soon gathered about them . 
Although the light was rapidly failing , Kearton finished what was left of his roll of film . 
The whir of the camera ended with a peculiar flapping sound . 
That's all , said Kearton , and sank down on a near by stone . 
But Loveless and the giraffe continued to face each other undisturbed . 
Well ? said Loveless , presently . 
Well ? echoed the Colonel . 
Well , how are we going to take this rope off him ? We've got none to spare , you know . 
Get a ladder , suggested Means . 
No , we won't need a ladder , said the Colonel seriously , but we'll have to throw him , after all . 
We can do it gently , I guess , without hurting him . 
The sun had set and the short twilight was rapidly deepening . 
The ox wagons and porters were several miles ahead . 
So we packed up the camera , coiled up the ropes , mounted , and rode away , and the giraffe raised himself on his haunches among the bushes and watched us go . 
With ox wagons it is a three days' journey from that water hole to the Guas Nyiro River at the border of the Sotik . 
The country through which we passed continued to be the same as that of the Mau escarpment a succession of low hills and shallow valleys covered with the small , twisted trees . 
And there was plenty of water on the way . 
But there was no game in the district . 
But the land on either side remained silent and deserted . 
At times the camera department would take moving pictures of the wagons and porters crossing a river , where an especially picturesque bit of scenery offered an attractive setting . 
He would sing more to himself than to anybody else , and if this began to bore him at all , he would stop in the middle and leave the story untold . 
In the afternoon of March we reached Webb's Farm , in the Guas Nyiro valley , which lies at the edge of the big plains . 
In this neighborhood there were three farms Webb's , Curry's , and Agate's and on the evening of our arrival some of their men paid a visit to the camp . 
And the visitors shook their heads a little and smiled and changed the subject . 
Now that we had reached the land of the big game , the Colonel for the first time called a day of rest . 
So we loafed about camp from sunrise to sunset and by evening were heartily sick of it all . 
As we had done in the Rift Valley , so here we adopted the method of sweeping the country with a widely extended line . 
The first day we rode far to the southward , to the Hot Springs and back , and found nothing , and an unreasoning depression settled upon the expedition . 
The next day we rode still farther , to the westward this time , and again found nothing , and so the depression deepened . 
Also on the afternoon of this day it rained heavily , and Curry agreed with Ulyate that this probably meant the beginning of the rainy season , which was already overdue . 
That night at the supper table the Colonel spoke his mind . 
The rain was dripping through the canvas fly overhead , and the Colonel wore his broad brimmed hat to help keep the water off his plate . 
There's no use hanging round here any longer , he said , not a bit of use . 
We haven't seen anything , nor a sign of anything . 
When the rains begin in earnest , this ground will soften fast an' the horses will get bogged an' we'll have to quit . 
So from now on we've got to work fast . 
Now Ulyate says there's water about twelve miles from here to the north called the Soda Swamp . 
We'll start for the Soda Swamp in the morning . 
Again it was moving day . 
The morning dawned fine after the rain , and the air was clear , and the country looked greener and fresher than it had ever looked before . 
We covered that district pretty thoroughly yesterday , he said . 
But still , you never can tell . 
Yet nobody thought it worth while for the camera department to go with them , and so Kearton and Gobbet and the four special porters trailed along with the slow , plodding wagon . 
Curry had remained behind to bring on the second load , and soon Ulyate left us to make a detour past Agate's farm to procure another sack of rice that was badly needed . 
Ours was a large safari , and the details of transportation required close attention . 
The sky remained clear and the heat became intense . 
The direction in which we were traveling led us along the border of the plains , through small green parks , scattered groves of trees , and scrub . 
So far as the mounted men were concerned , the march was a succession of rides and halts . 
When , after a while , it became evident that we should never agree in the matter , the conversation altered to a sort of spasmodic affair . 
I thought this district was so full of big game that you couldn't sleep at night for the lions roaring around you , Gobbet remarked lazily . 
Wait till you get among them , said Kearton . 
Sais , keep that horse farther away he'll be walking on us next . 
Well , I haven't been kept awake any yet , Gobbet replied . 
I wonder where that wagon's got to , and Kearton raised himself on one elbow and peered ahead from beneath the down tilted brim of his helmet . 
Then he lay back again and shut his eyes . 
Means is coming , he said . 
The announcement occasioned no surprise . 
Undoubtedly Means had some reason for returning over the trail , and when he reached the mound we should probably learn what he wanted . 
Means dismounted and sat down beside us . 
We've found a rhino over in the next valley yonder , he remarked , and nodded his head toward the west . 
A rhino is no matter to joke about , said Gobbet . 
Please remember that in future . 
I'm not jokin' , said Means . 
Loveless stopped halfway here , about three miles off . 
Colonel sent me to bring the rest of you and get the heavy rope . 
Is that right , Means ? Kearton asked sharply . 
But Means could not find the rope he wanted . 
He threw off half the load without success . 
It's on the other wagon . 
There's where it is , he finally concluded . 
No time to wait now . 
Other wagon likely hasn't started yet . 
We'll have to do with what we've got . 
Finally every one was ready , and we set forth once more on a wide detour to the north to approach the beast from down the wind . 
Loveless gave us the latest news The Colonel came over the rise a half hour ago and said the rhino was laying down resting quiet . 
The Colonel went back again at once to keep watch . 
As we proceeded farther on the circuit and began to ride down the gentle slope into the adjacent valley , we slowed down the pace to a cautious walk . 
No one spoke , and on the grass of the veldt the tread of the horses made scarcely any sound . 
Suddenly the Colonel appeared , walking toward us , bent low . 
He had backed out o' his hiding place behind a clump of scrub . 
He's laying down over there about a hundred yards away , he whispered . 
Now we want to catch the start of the show . 
You boys ready ? Means tightened his cinch , and shook his rope loose and coiled it up again . 
Loveless said he was ready . 
One of the saises produced the Colonel's horse from behind another clump of scrub , and Kearton dismounted and began creeping forward with his camera . 
Don't start him up till I get my position , he cautioned . 
The time was approximately a little after noon . 
The wind that was blowing was light , and same to us hot over the sunny reaches of veldt . 
Then the three ropers commenced maneuvering forward , swinging out a little to the right . 
He set up his camera and sighted it , and took out his handkerchief and carefully wiped the lens . 
When Kearton waved his hand , the Colonel's yell shattered the stillness and the great beast heaved up out of the grass and tossed his head and sniffed the air and snorted . 
The horsemen rode full tilt at him , and with surprising quickness the rhino wheeled and broke away south down the valley . 
For a good three miles the rhino ran straight and fast . 
Finally he came into more open country , which was dotted here and therewith small thorn trees . 
Here , also , in one place there was a fair sized pool of water , left over from the rains of the night before . 
The rhino selected this pool as a good position from which to act on the defensive . 
He splashed into the water , stopped , and faced the horsemen . 
Then followed a few minutes' respite for all concerned . 
The horses were panting heavily after the sharp run , and the rhino's position in the pool rendered it difficult to approach him for a chance to throw a rope . 
Evidently considering himself safe for the moment , the beast rolled once or twice in the water and then stood on guard as before , but with his black sides dripping . 
We've got to get him out of that , said the Colonel . 
A horse wouldn't stand a show there . 
Now when I get him to charge me , you boys stand by . 
Before the Colonel finished speaking , he was already edging toward the pool . 
For fifteen yards the rhino watched him coming . 
But Means was after the rhino like a flash , and with a quick throw caught him round the neck . 
The big bay fell back on his haunches and the rope snapped like twine . 
We'll miss that heavy rope to day , Means said . 
We'll tie him up with what we've got , the Colonel replied . 
Only we've got to tire him out some first . 
What we'll do is to make him charge us one after the other , so he'll run three times to the horses' running once . 
It was a full half hour before the next attempt was made to throw a rope . 
Time after time the rhino came plunging out of the water to charge the nearest horseman . 
Our Western horses proved to be only just a trifle faster than the rhino , so that each time the beast nearly caught them . 
Besides , here and there , the ground was bad with ant bear holes , which had to be avoided , for a fall would mean disaster . 
But little by little it became apparent that the rhino's continual charging was beginning to produce an effect . 
In the meanwhile the rest of the chase was coming up . 
He was carrying the heavy camera under his arm , the tripod over his shoulder . 
The reins were hanging loose over his saddle horn , his heels were thumping the horse's sides , and the perspiration was streaming down his face . 
We lost you , he panted . 
How's it going ? What a picture ! Mac , the Mohammedan , and Aro , the Masai warrior , took the apparatus from him , and he dismounted and went to work . 
His mode of progression was to walk on three legs and to drag the black horse after him with the other . 
He reached the ant hill and demolished it and paused for a breathing spell . 
The chase followed after , and Kearton went into action on the north and Gobbet on the south , near a small thorn tree , with a negro porter beside him . 
The rhino caught sight of Gobbet's camera and charged . 
The porter went up the tree like a flash . 
Look out ! yelled the Colonel . 
Gobbet glanced up over the top of the camera and made a jump for the tree . 
But the porter was already in the branches , and the tree was so small there was not room for two , and Gobbet had to run for it . 
The next second , with a powerful upward stroke of his horn , the rhino sent the apparatus flying . 
Then Means succeeded in attracting his attention and he charged the horseman instead . 
And all the while Kearton had his camera trained upon the scene in which his assistant was playing the conspicuous part . 
I hope I got that good , he said it'll make fine action fine . 
From one position to another , from ant hill to thorn tree and back to ant hill once more , the fight went on through the long , hot afternoon . 
Ropes were thrown and caught and broken , mended and thrown again . 
The horses were pulled , all standing , one way and another . 
Rolls of film were exposed and replaced by fresh ones . 
The rhino sulked and stormed and charged in turn . 
At the end of the fourth hour Loveless had one short length of light line left . 
The rest of the ropes were dangling , broken , from the rhino's legs and neck as he stood at bay over the ruins of the ant hill . 
The sun was rapidly canting toward the west . 
The continual work in the intense heat , without food or water , was beginning to tell on both horses and men . 
The rhino was weakening faster . 
But only one hour of daylight remained , and if the beast could hold out till dark we should lose him . 
There was the dead stump of a tree with the roots protruding lying in the grass near by . 
The Colonel told Means to fasten the stump to the last piece of line , and Loveless rode toward Kearton's machine , past the rhino , dragging the stump behind him . 
As the Colonel had foreseen , the beast charged at the stump , and the loose ropes hanging from him became entangled in the roots . 
So on they went at a run , first Loveless , then the stump , bounding over the ground , then the charging rhino , headed straight for Kearton's camera . 
I don't want to be unreasonable , he added , when the rhino stopped , but you ought to have learned better by this time . 
Then , by hauling in gently , Loveless succeeded in recovering two of the ropes , and they were pieced together and thrown again , catching the rhino by one hind leg . 
Both the cowboys put their horses to work pulling forward on the rope , and they lifted that one hind leg ahead . 
The rhino charged once just before the knot was tied , and Loveless had to jump into the branches through the thorns to escape . 
He charged again , rather feebly this time , trying to get free , but the rope held well and tripped him up . 
After that he stood quietly at the end of his tether , watching the camera in a sullen way while Kearton took his picture with the last few feet of film . 
In the November number Mr. Scull will relate the adventures of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition in Lassoing Lion . 
XXIII No. NOVEMBER , The Homely Heroine pages By EDNA FERBER MILLIE WHITCOMB , of the fancy goods and notions , beckoned me with her finger . 
Kate O'Malley can tell a funny story in a way to make the after dinner pleasantries of a Washington diplomat sound like the clumsy jests told around the village grocery stove . 
She had an adorable throat' and hair that waved away from her white brow , and eyes that now were blue and now gray . 
Say , why don't you write a story about an ugly girl ? My land ! protested I. It's bad enough trying to make them accept my stories as it is . 
That last heroine was a raving beauty , but she came back eleven times before the editor of Blakely's succumbed to her charms . 
Millie's fingers were busy straightening the contents of a tray of combs and imitation jet barrettes . 
Millie's fingers were not intended for that task . 
They are slender , tapering fingers , pink tipped and sensitive . 
I should think , mused she , rubbing a cloudy piece of jet with a bit of soft cloth , that they'd welcome a homely one with relief . 
These goddesses are so cloying . 
Millie Whitcomb's black hair is touched with soft mists of gray , and she wears lavender shirtwaists and white stocks edged with lavender . 
There is a Colonial air about her that has nothing to do with celluloid combs and imitation jet barrettes . 
In our town the clerks are not the pert and gum chewing young persons that story writers are wont to describe . 
The girls at Bascom's are institutions . 
They know us all by our first names , and our lives are as an open book to them . 
Kate O'Malley , who has been at Bascom's for so many years that she is rumored to have stock in the company , may be said to govern the fashions of our town . 
She is wont to say , when we express a fancy for gray as the color of our new spring suit Oh , now , Nellie , don't get gray again . 
You had it year before last , and don't you think it was just the least leetle bit trying ? Let me show you that green that came in yesterday . 
I said the minute I clapped my eyes on it that it was just the color for you , with your brown hair and all . 
And we end by deciding on the green . 
The girls at Bascom's are not gossips they are too busy for that but they may be said to be delightfully well informed . 
So when Millie Whitcomb , of the fancy goods and notions , expressed her hunger for a homely heroine , I did not resent the suggestion . 
On the contrary , it sent me home in thoughtful mood , for Millie Whitcomb has acquired a knowledge of human nature in the dispensing of her fancy goods and notions . 
It set me casting about for a really homely heroine . 
There never has been a really ugly heroine in fiction . 
Authors have started bravely out to write of an unlovely woman , but they never have had the courage to allow her to remain plain . 
There's the case of Jane Eyre , too . 
In the first place , Pearlie is fat . 
Not plump , or rounded , or dimpled , or deliciously curved , but FAT . 
She bulges in all the wrong places , including her chin . 
Pearlie Schultz used to sit on the front porch summer evenings and watch the couples stroll by , and weep in her heart . 
A fat girl with a fat girl's soul is a comedy . 
But a fat girl with a thin girl's soul is a tragedy . 
Pearlie , in spite of her two hundred pounds , had the soul of a willow wand . 
The walk in front of Pearlie's house was guarded by a row of big trees that cast kindly shadows . 
The strolling couples used to step gratefully into the embrace of these shadows , and from them into other embraces . 
Pearlie , sitting on the porch , could see them dimly , although they could not see her . 
She could not help remarking that these strolling couples were strangely lacking in sprightly conversation . 
Their remarks were but fragmentary , disjointed affairs , spoken in low tones with a queer , tremulous note in them . 
Pearlie , sitting alone on the porch in the dark , listened to these things and blushed furiously . 
In the daytime Pearlie worked as public stenographer at the Burke Hotel . 
At the end of each month she usually found that she weighed three pounds more than she had the month before . 
The folks at home never joked with Pearlie about her weight . 
Even one's family has some respect for a life sorrow . 
And your blue skirt just ripples in the back , it's getting so big for you . 
Of such blessed stuff are mothers made . 
But if the gods had denied Pearlie all charms of face or form , they had been decent enough to bestow on her one gift . 
Pearlie could cook like an angel no , better than an angel , for no angel could be a really clever cook and wear those flowing kimono like sleeves . 
They'd get into the soup . 
Pearlie could take a piece of rump and some suet and an onion and a cup or so of water , and evolve a pot roast that you could cut with a fork . 
She could turn out a surprisingly good cake with surprisingly few eggs , all covered with white icing , and bearing cunning little jelly figures on its snowy bosom . 
She could beat up biscuits that fell apart at the lightest pressure , revealing little pools of golden butter within . 
Oh , Pearlie could cook ! On week days Pearlie rattled the typewriter keys , but on Sundays she shooed her mother out of the kitchen . 
Her mother went , protesting faintly Now , Pearlie , don't fuss so for dinner . 
You ought to get your rest on Sunday instead of stewing over a hot stove all morning . 
Hot fiddlesticks , ma , Pearlie would say , cheerily . 
It ain't hot , because it's a gas stove . 
And I'll only get fat if I sit around . 
You put on your black and white and go to church . 
Call me when you've got as far as your corsets , and I'll puff your hair for you in the back . 
In her capacity of public stenographer at the Burke Hotel , it was Pearlie's duty to take letters dictated by traveling men and beginning Yours of the th at hand . 
or Enclosed please find , etc . 
Not that Pearlie would ever have allowed them to . 
But she never had had to reprove them . 
During pauses in dictation she had a way of peering near sightedly over her glasses at the dapper , well dressed traveling salesman who was rolling off the items on his sale bill . 
That is a trick which would make the prettiest kind of a girl look owlish . 
On the night that Sam Miller strolled up to talk to her , Pearlie was working late . 
She had promised to get out a long and intricate bill for Max Baum , who travels for Kuhn and Klingman , so that he might take the nine o'clock evening train . 
The irrepressible Max had departed with much eclat and clatter , and Pearlie was preparing to go home when Sam approached her . 
Sam had just come in from the Gayety Theatre across the street , whither he had gone in a vain search for amusement after supper . 
He had come away in disgust . 
Ordinarily , Sam would not have minded it . 
But that evening , in the vest pocket just over the place where he supposed his heart to be , reposed his girl's daily letter . 
They were to be married on Sam's return to New York from his first long trip . 
In the letter near his heart she had written prettily and seriously about traveling men , and traveling men's wives , and her little code for both . 
The fragrant , girlish , grave little letter had caused Sam to sour on the efforts of the soiled soubrette . 
As soon as possible he had fled up the aisle and across the street to the hotel writing room . 
There he had spied Pearlie's good humored , homely face , and its contrast with the silly , red and white countenance of the unlaundered soubrette had attracted his homesick heart . 
Pearlie had taken some letters from him earlier in the day . 
Now , in his hunger for companionship , he strolled up to her desk just as she was putting her typewriter to bed . 
Gee ! This is a lonesome town ! said Sam , smiling down at her . 
Pearlie glanced up at him , over her glasses . 
I guess you must be from New York , she said . 
I've heard a real New Yorker can get bored in Paris . 
New to the road , aren't you ? asked Pearlie . 
How did you know ? Well , you generally can tell . 
They don't know what to do with themselves evenings , and they look rebellious when they go into the dining room . 
The old timers just look resigned . 
Why , you poor kid , breathed Pearlie , her pale eyes fixed on him in motherly pity . 
You oughtn't to do that . 
You'll get so thin your girl won't know you . 
Sam looked up , quickly . 
Say , would you mind if I walked home with you ? asked Sam . 
If Pearlie was surprised , she was woman enough not to show it . 
She picked up her gloves and handbag , locked her drawer with a click , and smiled her acquiescence . 
And when Pearlie smiled she was awful . 
It was a glorious evening in the early summer , moonless , velvety , and warm . 
As they strolled homeward , Sam told her all about the Girl , as is the way of traveling men the world over . 
And they stopped under an arc light while Sam showed her the picture in his watch as is also the way of traveling men since time immemorial . 
Pearlie made an excellent listener . 
He was so boyish and so much in love and so pathetically eager to make good with the firm , and so happy to have someone in whom to confide . 
But it's a dog's life , after all , reflected Sam , again after the fashion of all traveling men . 
Any fellow on the road earns his salary these days , you bet . 
I wasn't wise to the packing , and the unpacking , and the rotten train service , and the grouchy customers , and the canceled bills , and the grub . 
A man told me once that twice a week regularly he dreamed of the way his wife cooked noodle soup . 
My folks are German , explained Sam . 
And my mother can she cook ! Well , I just don't seem able to get her potato pancakes out of my mind . 
And her roast beef tasted and looked like roast beef , and not like a wet red flannel rag . 
At this moment Pearlie was seized with a brilliant idea . 
You're going to Sunday here , aren't you ? Come over and eat your dinner with us . 
If you have forgotten the taste of real food , I can give you a dinner that'll jog your memory . 
Oh , really , protested Sam . 
You're awfully good , but I couldn't think of it . 
I You needn't be afraid . 
I'm not letting you in for anything . 
I can cook , boy , in a way to make your mother's Sunday dinner , with company expected look like Mrs. Newly wed's first attempt at riz' biscuits . 
And I don't mean any disrespect to your mother when I say it . 
I'm going to have noodle soup , and fried chicken , and hot biscuits , and creamed beans from our own garden , and strawberry shortcake with real Hush ! shouted Sam . 
If I ain't there , you'll know that I passed away during the night , and you can telephone the clerk to break in my door . 
The Grim Reaper spared him , and Sam came , and was introduced to the family , and ate . 
He put himself in a class with Dr . 
Johnson , and Ben Brust , and Gargantua , only that his table manners were better . 
That night he came over to say good by before taking his train out for Ishpeming . 
He and Pearlie strolled down as far as the park and back again . 
I didn't eat any supper , said Sam . 
It would have been sacrilege , after that dinner of yours . 
Honestly , I don't know how to thank you , being so good to a stranger like me . 
I'll tell her about you , you bet . 
In the meantime , if there's anything I can do for you , I'm yours to command . 
Pearlie turned to him , suddenly . 
You see that clump of thick shadows ahead of us , where those big trees stand in front of our house ? Sure , replied Sam . 
And when you get back to New York you can tell your girl I asked you to . 
There broke from him a little involuntary exclamation . 
It might have been of pity , and it might have been of surprise . 
It had in it something of both , but nothing of mirth . 
And there was in the gesture something of reverence . 
Millie Whitcomb didn't like the story of the homely heroine , after all . 
She says that a steady diet of such literary fare would give her blue indigestion . 
Also she objects on the ground that no one got married that is , the heroine didn't . 
And she says that a heroine who does not get married isn't a heroine at all . 
She thinks she prefers the pink cheeked , goddess kind , in the end . 
By CLARENCE URMY Stand here , and watch the wondrous birth of Dreams From out the Gate of Silence . 
Side By side the many colored Visions glide , And leave a wake where Fancy glows and gleams . 
XXIII No. NOVEMBER , Lassoing WILD ANIMALS In Africa pages By GUY H. SCULL FIELD OF THE BUFFALO JONES AFRICAN EXPEDITION . 
III There was no use trying to avoid the fact any longer . 
The lions , for the present , had left the Sotik country , and by remaining in camp at the Soda Swamp the Buffalo Jones Expedition was only wasting time . 
And time was precious then was growing more precious every day if we expected to finish the work before the rains . 
The lion was the only big game we wanted now to complete the list of wild animals roped and tied , and the lion was the most important of all . 
The expedition had traveled the long journey to the Sotik country especially to find them . 
The blurred effect of the unique illustrations to this article is accounted for by the extreme difficulty of reproducing from a cinematograph film . 
It simply meant that the lions were not there . 
Some explanations were offered , some arguments arose as to the whys and wherefores of this state of affairs . 
A few maintained that the lions had always been found there before it was strange they should have gone . 
A theory was advanced that the rains were late and the country was unusually dry , so that the game had shifted to better pastures . 
Perhaps some water hole they depended on had failed . 
There is generally some discussion on such occasions . 
We had counted so much on the Sotik to give us our chance that the truth was hard to realize at first . 
But no matter what the cause might be , we were finally forced to acknowledge the undeniable fact the lions had left the district . 
On the evening of March the expedition faced the situation . 
As usual , the night fell cold , and when supper was finished the company collected about the fire that was burning close to the horses . 
A light wind stirred in the leaves overhead and the sky was full of stars . 
Here and there a tired horse was already half asleep , and his head nodded gently in the firelight . 
From the darkness came the low talk of the saises , rolled in their blankets on the ground at the end of the picket line . 
Most of the men stood with their backs to the flames , gazing vacantly at the horses , the trees , or the stars . 
For a while not a word was said . 
Means threw another log on the fire and then squatted on his heels and silently watched the flames catch the bark and flare up brightly . 
As the heat increased , Kearton took a step farther away and stood again . 
Every one knew that the Sotik had failed us and that it was time for us to go , and so eventually when the Colonel spoke he only voiced the general conclusion . 
We've got to go back , he said , speaking straight in front of him at the nearest of the sleepy horses . 
We've got to go to morrow and have a try from the water hole at the Rugged Rocks where we saw the two lions on the way out here . 
We may find one there and we may not . 
If we don't , we've got to go on to Nairobi and start all over again provided the rains don't begin . 
The cameras were stowed away on the wagons , the ropes remained coiled on the saddles , for there was no probability of our finding lions on the way . 
For the most part it was a silent journey . 
At the Last Water we outspanned for the night and most of the succeeding day . 
But throughout the dragging hours of the enforced rest always there loomed ahead of us the possibility of failure and the need of haste . 
No mention was made of this openly . 
The only sign of our underlying anxiety was a vague restlessness pervading the entire safari . 
Once on the march again , with the sun low in the west , the restlessness disappeared . 
Now and again one of the wheels bumped over a rock in the road and the brake beam shook and rattled . 
At times the high pitched cries of the native drivers pierced the stillness . 
Ahead of us the bulk of the wagon load loomed big against the stars . 
It was just about here that we caught the giraffe that day , said Kearton . 
The discussion was lengthy on this point it always was . 
By the time the sun came , the expedition had entered the plain of the Rift Valley , and with the rising of the sun the thirst began . 
As the horsemen took the road the Colonel outlined his plan . 
We'll give the horses a good rest to night , for we ought to make camp early , and then start hunting the first thing in the morning . 
We've got enough horse feed to last us three or four days if the water holds out that long . 
In that time we ought to get a lion if there's any there . 
I'll ride on now a bit and look for signs . 
The Colonel's horse was a faster walker than the others and slowly he forged ahead . 
Little by little the safari began to string out along the road until wide spaces grew between the ox wagons , with the porters straggling after them a mile behind . 
A change had come over the valley since we had seen it last . 
The land was whiter beneath the blazing sunshine and the dust lay thicker in the road . 
The only movement was the shimmer of the heat waves . 
Loveless came from behind and rode with us for half a mile or so . 
If you keep on going fast enough , I don't think he'll have a chance to spring at you . 
Ulyate , the white hunter , was the next . 
Kearton had just finished filling his pipe and he silently reached out the bag of tobacco . 
But Ulyate shook his head . 
Throat's too dry , he said . 
But I want to be sure I understand what I've got to do . 
I'm to stand by to protect the cameras and leave the Colonel and the two boys to look after themselves . 
If the lion charges them I'm not to fire only if he comes at the cameras . 
That's right only if he comes at the cameras . 
That's what I thought , but I wanted to make sure It's a likely place , this Rugged Rocks , he continued over his shoulder . 
We might easily find one to morrow . 
Means on his big bay borrowed a drink of water from Gobbet's canteen , and rode on after the others . 
The march of the safari grew slower and slower . 
The road was flat , bending a little back and forth in long , sweeping curves , like a rope that was once taut and had been loosened . 
None of them looked up as we halted there , dismounted , and turned the horses loose . 
Water hole has dried , he said . 
There was nothing to be done about it . 
If the water hole had dried , it had dried . 
And we had to push on to Kijabe . 
Lions or no lions , there was no appeal from that decree . 
So we sat down with the others and watched the progress of the far off dust cloud that marked the approaching wagons . 
Then , when darkness came again , the safari resumed the march . 
But the Colonel refused to abandon his former plan entirely without making at least one more attempt . 
Together with the two cowboys and Kearton , he remained behind to scout at dawn the district between the Rugged Rocks and the railway . 
We might be able to tell if it's worth while to come back here , he explained . 
It was nearly noon of the following day before the scouting party rejoined the expedition on the platform of the Kijabe station . 
The party reported that near the base of Longernot , the northern volcano , a belt of lava rock rises perpendicularly from the plain . 
Close to the southern end of this belt they had flushed two lions , a male and a female , and had kept sight of them for fully an hour . 
It was the opinion of all in the party that the lions lived in the neighborhood , probably in the rocks . 
Very likely , said Ulyate no one has ever hunted that corner of the valley . 
There is no water there . 
Means had strained his back again and could no longer sit straight in the saddle . 
An old thorn wound in Loveless's foot needed attention . 
Horses , dogs , and oxen were entirely fagged out . 
And besides , the camera department demanded time to develop the earlier pictures , already too long kept in the rolls . 
Of course , as the Colonel maintained , the rains might come and the chance be lost . 
Also the lions might not live in the rocks , as we thought , and to morrow they might be gone . 
Better grab the opportunity while we have it , he said . 
Look at the horses , said Means . 
The Colonel walked deliberately along the platform to where the horses were tethered among the trees , and stood there watching them for quite a while . 
You're right , Means , he said , when he returned to us . 
They'll need at least four or five days before we can put them at a lion well , we've got to chance it . 
The next five days were the longest in the history of the expedition . 
The Colonel , Means , and Ulyate remained at Kijabe with the outfit . 
But the weather held clear , and in the meanwhile the preparations for this last attempt were pushed with the utmost speed . 
The hunters at Nairobi , together with the storekeepers and farmers of the vicinity , had heard of the capture of the rhino . 
On occasions some of them spoke of it to us . 
They explained that they had thought all along that we could undoubtedly rope a rhino . 
But you haven't got a lion yet , have you ? they said . 
On April the preparations were nearly completed and Loveless's foot was nearly well . 
So we started up the line to rejoin the outfit , leaving Gobbet at Nairobi to finish developing the films . 
We could not afford to spend more time in preparation . 
At Kijabe we found the horses thoroughly rested and Means's back much improved . 
He had refused to see a doctor , asserting that his back would just naturally get better of its own accord . 
He said he was ready to start . 
Sounder , the American bloodhound , still showed some effects of distemper . 
But none of the dogs was to be left behind on this journey . 
The crater on Longernot had already caught the first rays of the sun when we reached the bottom of the hill and started across the flat land of the valley . 
There was no road leading to where we were going , nor track , nor path , of any kind . 
No safari had ever gone there before . 
From the height of Kijabe station we had seen what looked to be a long , low mound in the distant veldt . 
The southern end of that long , low mound was our destination . 
The horsemen , as usual , spread out in a widely extended line and passed in front of the wagons and porters . 
As we penetrated farther into the valley the nature of the country altered . 
Open parks and stretches of scrub succeeded one another , with here and there a dry donga cutting deep into the ground . 
As we approached the mound it rapidly grew in height and the black rocks commenced to appear beneath the covering of verdure . 
Among the settlers of the district this mound is called the Black Reef . 
It is the general opinion that the Black Reef is formed of lava that long ago flowed down into the plain from the crater of Longernot . 
The sides , which rise almost perpendicularly to a height of some two hundred feet , are composed of jagged blocks of stone , honeycombed with deep caves and caverns . 
The top is covered with thick scrub and creepers and tall , rank grasses . 
To the southward it ends abruptly , as though the lava flow had suddenly stopped and cooled . 
Under the shadow of the Black Reef the hunting party was divided into three parts . 
But the only incident of the afternoon was a thunder cloud that rose up out of the north and hung there , and then gradually disappeared as the twilight advanced . 
The others were late in coming in . 
The Colonel in the north had found tracks innumerable tracks of different kinds of beasts all excepting those of the lion . 
Well , so long as he's dead we'll let him lie where he is , said the Colonel . 
Lions are mighty fond of rhino meat . 
They'll travel miles to get it . 
Day after to morrow , say just at dawn , we ought to be able to pick up a fresh trail there . 
If we don't , it will mean that the lions are no longer here , that's all . 
Loveless grunted some unintelligible comment . 
Might as well be cheerful , said Means . 
The first real hunting day commenced at daylight the next morning . 
Hour after hour the horsemen traveled the plains , back and forth , and across and around , and carefully searched the base of the Black Reef on every side . 
Only one spot was left untouched . 
The Colonel decreed that no one should approach where the dead rhino lay , lest our presence there should arouse suspicion too soon . 
The rhino was a sort of special chance that was to be saved for the proper time . 
The day was unusually still and cloudless . 
Here and there throughout the plains scattered herds of zebra , hartebeests , and gazelles grazed in peace . 
Not a spoor or a sign of lion was to be seen . 
For us the day was a blank , and toward evening the thunder cloud rose again out of the north and again melted away into the twilight . 
The camp behind the shoulder of the Black Reef was a dry camp . 
Every drop of water had to be hauled in drums from Sewell's Farm . 
The ox wagon went in the morning and returned in the afternoon . 
In this way we could haul just enough water to last the outfit twenty four hours . 
Horses and dogs were given the preference always , and one of the escaries was detailed to guard the drums . 
That night the wagon was long in returning from Sewell's . 
When it finally arrived , the water in one of the drums had a strange taste . 
It's bad , said Loveless . 
Immediately the affair assumed grave proportions . 
That particular drum became the most important object in camp . 
A feeling akin to personal animosity sprang up against it . 
For a time the merits and demerits of the case were seriously discussed , and some of the porters gathered there and stared stupidly at the wagon load of water . 
I'll tell you what it is , said Ulyate it's the weeds they've used as a stopper . 
Means drew a cupful and sipped deliberately . 
It might be the weeds , he finally remarked . 
It's not really bad only tastes bad . 
So in the end we begged the question by setting the drum aside and deciding to use it only if we had to . 
But there were other matters to be determined that evening . 
In the Colonel's opinion the time had come for us to try to find a trail at the carcass of the rhino , and the talk lasted far into the night . 
When finally evolved , the plan of campaign was simple . 
Thus the men would be stationed at each corner of a vast triangle . 
If the Colonel flushed a lion , the animal would probably break for either the rocks or the donga , and so either the cowboys or the camera department could cut him off . 
Because the distances were so great , the customary signal of two revolver shots to gather could not be relied upon the lighting of a fire would mean the same . 
The morning star was still bright in the eastern heavens when the expedition rode out of camp in the early hours of April th . 
At the end of half a mile the three parties gradually separated on slightly diverging lines and moved silently to their appointed stations . 
Leaving the horses and the camera porters at the base of the reef , the three of us of the center station climbed the rocks in the darkness and waited for the dawn . 
Slowly the first signs of day appeared over the hills and the morning star commenced to fade . 
For fully half an hour everything was still and the light steadily broadened . 
In the plain to the southeast we could see a black speck moving about in a strange manner first one way , then another , then stopping and moving on again . 
It's the Colonel , said Kearton , who had the glasses . 
I think I can see the dogs . 
It was not many minutes before the Colonel's actions took on a different trend . 
For a space he rode straight for the reef . 
There the smaller black specks of the dogs appeared on the plain in front . 
No doubt remained now of what the Colonel was up to . 
The dogs were on the trail of some animal lion or hyena , there was no telling which but the scent was hot and the hunt was coming strong . 
At one place the dogs made a big bend to the north toward our camp . 
So the beast , whatever it was , had come to have a look at us in the night . 
For the first time then , as they swung back for the rocks , we faintly heard a hound give tongue . 
It was the only sound in the stillness . 
Kearton began tearing up the dry grass that grew in the cracks between the rocks , and piled it in a heap . 
Not yet , said Ulyate wait till we're sure . 
On came the hunt , following close to the southern base of the reef . 
The hounds could be heard giving tongue in turn now . 
The Colonel rode behind , leaning forward and cheering on the dogs . 
He's made for the rocks all right come on , said Ulyate as , rifle in hand , he started down the cliff . 
That will fetch the boys , all right , he said , and we followed Ulyate down to the plain . 
We rounded the buttress only to find that the chase had vanished . 
The almost perpendicular wall of rocks was empty . 
There was a moment's halt . 
Then two quick shots rang out , and at once there began a general chorus of baying , yelping dogs , intermingled with the deep , heavy roar of a lion . 
The sounds came from somewhere in the thick growth on top of the Reef , so we left the horses and climbed toward the sound . 
It's a lioness , said Ulyate . 
The dogs have got her bayed . 
Look out ! She's just on the other side of that bush . 
When I got here I found the Colonel seated on his horse , facing the beast and trying to rope her . 
He didn't even have a knife on him . 
Why she didn't charge him , I don't know . 
He couldn't get away over this kind of ground . 
He told me to call the others and so I fired . 
When the cowboys arrived from the distant donga , they came threading their way toward us through the brush , leading their horses . 
A short consultation was held . 
We've got to shift her , said the Colonel . 
Can't do anything with her here . 
Bring there she goes ! The lioness had decided the issue and had bolted of her own accord . 
There was a streak of yellow through the bushes , a scrambling of dogs , wild , frightened cries from the approaching camera porters , and the hunt was on once more . 
The beast ran to an open cave at the edge of the plateau and crouched there facing the dogs . 
To maneuver the horses was absolutely out of the question , so the lioness had to be shifted again . 
The sun rose and the heat commenced . 
The dogs were feeling the strain of the constant baying . 
One by one they would seek a spot of shade and lie panting there for a while and then return to the fray . 
Sounder , being weak from distemper , was the first to give out , but he had done his share of the work . 
Porters were sent back to camp to bring water . 
The day advanced and the dogs showed signs of tiring fast , yet the lioness still clung to the stronghold of the rocks . 
Every means at hand to drive her into the open had been tried time and again without avail . 
The task began to look hopeless . 
We had already reached the stage when we saw our resources coming to an end . 
Get a pole , said the Colonel , and we'll poke a noose over her . 
It won't work , said Loveless . 
We've tried that often enough to show it won't work . 
Just the same we'll try it again , replied the Colonel . 
On the bank of the donga the lioness stopped to fight the ropers . 
She had run far enough and meant business now , and the hunt came up and halted a short distance away for a breathing spell . 
The lioness had taken up her position at the end of a short tongue of land projecting into the donga , so that she was partially protected on three sides . 
The yelping dogs had quickly surrounded her , but she paid little heed to them now . 
Crouched by the side of a small thorn bush , she watched every move of the horsemen preparing to advance . 
Kearton mounted his camera at one side of the scene , selecting his position with care to obtain the best background and general composition . 
He shifted about two or three times before he was satisfied . 
Of course there's no telling which way she's going to jump , he explained . 
But we might as well get the beginning of it right . 
Slowly he maneuvered toward her for a chance to throw his rope , and the lioness , alert , opened her jaws and snarled at the horseman circling near . 
Closer and closer Means approached . 
Then all at once she charged . 
Means wheeled and spurred his horse to escape . 
For the first thirty yards of the race the lioness gained rapidly . 
Then the bay began to gather headway and slowly forged ahead . 
With a quick change of front the lioness turned and charged the Colonel , who was sitting on his horse nearby . 
And all the while Kearton , on foot with his tripod , was busy taking pictures of the show . 
This second position of hers gave the horsemen a better chance . 
There was now more room in which to get near her by a quick dash past the bush . 
While Means edged around on the northern side , the Colonel moved to the south , and by tossing his rope about and shouting he managed to attract and hold her attention . 
Then from behind her Means darted forward on the run , swinging his rope free round and round his head . 
But a lioness's neck is short and thick , and with a quick , catlike twist she slipped the noose over her ears . 
Why can't they wait ? complained Kearton . 
Somebody tell them to wait till I fix this . 
It must have got knocked on a rock somewhere . 
It never acted this way before . 
And all the while he talked his fingers were busy ripping out the jammed piece of film and loading up afresh . 
When he declared himself ready , Loveless , this time , had already taken up his position to the north . 
Again the Colonel waved his rope and shouted , and when the right moment came Loveless dashed past her and likewise roped her round the neck . 
Again the beast slipped the noose . 
Here a rather strange thing happened . 
For a time then it seemed that nothing would move her from out this scrub . 
Men and horses were becoming played out . 
Firecrackers and burning grass were used without result . 
Eventually the Colonel fastened a forked stick to his rope and dragged it across her hiding place to uncover her . 
This maneuver partly succeeded succeeded enough , at least , for Loveless to throw his rope at her . 
At once Means was after her , galloping hard , for without the dogs there was danger of our losing sight of her . 
But the lioness did not run far . 
Her next and last position was in the bed of a small gully about three feet deep in the bottom of the donga and thickly grown with grasses . 
Here the ropers held a brief consultation and planned a final attempt . 
Loveless made a throw and the noose landed fairly above the beast's head , but the thick grasses held it up . 
Loveless passed the other end of his rope over the branch of a near by tree and down to the horn of his saddle . 
The rest of us , with the cameras trained on the scene , had no knowledge of the plan . 
We had not the slightest idea what the Colonel intended to do . 
Still wondering , we watched him procure a long pole and ride quietly along the edge of the ditch toward the place where the lioness crouched . 
For a moment there was intense silence . 
The Colonel stopped his horse . 
Then , leaning over from his saddle , he poked the noose down through the grass . 
With a roar the beast sprang at him sprang through the loop and at the other end of the rope Loveless yanked quickly and caught her by the last hind leg going through . 
Got her ! yelled the Colonel . 
Now the rains can come when they like . 
She was still swinging , head down like a pendulum , from the limb of the tree , and was tossing her body about in frantic endeavor to get loose . 
Means approached close and deftly slipped a noose over one of the wildly gyrating fore legs . 
Leading his rope over the branch of another tree , he stretched her out in a helpless position parallel with the ground . 
Now lower away on both lines , said the Colonel . 
He dismounted and stood beneath her , directing affairs as methodically as the foreman of a construction gang . 
Steady , Means a little more , Loveless now together easy . 
She came within his reach and with a quick grab he caught and held her two hind legs with both hands while Kearton bound them together with a piece of light line . 
In less than five minutes she was bound securely and lowered all the way to the ground to rest in the shade . 
It was nearly noon , and time to call a halt to let the heat of the day pass over before attempting to bring her back to camp . 
Porters were sent to fetch food and more water , horses were off saddled and turned loose to graze , and one by one the dogs came straggling in . 
The men stretched themselves out on the ground where a bush or a tree afforded some protection from the sun . 
Once he stood over her for a while , watching her vain attempts to cut the ropes with her teeth . 
Yes , you're a beauty , he finally said . 
I guess we'll just have to take you home with us as a souvenir of the trip . 
XXIII December No. THE WOMEN OF TO MORROW page part . 
By WILLIAM HARD IV THE WASTERS It got talked around among Marie's friends that she didn't want children . 
This was considered very surprising , in view of all that her father and husband had done for her . 
Work and pain were the two things Marie was on no account to be exposed to . 
With this small but important reservation she might work at avoiding pain . 
When the cook had a headache she took Getting Breakfast for it . 
When Marie had a headache she worked not at breakfast but at the headache . 
It was a social ceremony of large proportions , with almost everybody among those present , from the doctor down through Mother and Auntie to Little Sister . 
It was not thought that Marie could vanquish a headache except after a plucky fight of at least one day's duration . 
Actresses go on and do their turns day after day and night after night with hardly a miss . 
Marie's troubles were no more numerous than theirs . 
But they were much larger . 
They expand to fill any void into which they are introduced . 
Marie's spread themselves through a vacuum as large as her life . 
The making of that vacuum and the inserting of Marie into it cost her father and her husband prodigious toil and was a great pleasure to them . 
Marie belonged to the Leisure Class . 
Socially , she was therefore distinctly superior to her father and her husband . 
Marie's father wasn't so very rich either . 
He was engaged in a business so vividly competitive that Marie's brother was hurried through college as fast as possible and brought into the game at twenty two with every nerve stretched taut . 
Nothing like that was expected of Marie . 
She was brought up to think that leisure was woman's natural estate . 
Work , for any girl , she regarded as an accident due to the unexpected and usually reprehensible collapse of the males of the poor girl's family . 
This view of the matter gave Marie UNCONSCIOUSLY TO HERSELF , what morality she had . 
Hard drinking , illegitimate gambling , and excessive dissipations of all sorts are observed commonly to have a prejudicial effect on male efficiency and family prosperity . 
, Marie was a Moral Force of a million angel power . 
Aside from vices , however , all kinds of conduct looked much alike to her . 
Ethics is the rules of the game , the decencies of the struggle for existence . 
Marie had no part in the struggle . 
She violated its decencies without being at all aware of it . 
, she was as competent a little grafter as the town afforded . 
But she was a perfectly logical one . 
Her family had trained her to deadhead her way through life and she did it . 
Finally she went beyond their expectations . 
They hadn't quite anticipated all of the sweetly undeviating inertia of her mind . 
Nevertheless she was a nice girl . 
In fact she was The Nice Girl . 
She was sweet tempered , sweet mannered , and sweet spoken a perfect dear . 
She never did a bad thing in her life . 
And she never ceased from her career of moral forcing . 
She wrote to her husband from her mountain fastness , warning him against high balls in hot weather . 
It is hardly fair , however , to lay the whole explanation of Marie on her father , her husband , and herself . 
A few years ago , in the churchyard of St . 
He had a good deal to do with making Marie what she was . 
It was only about two feet square . 
But it accomplished a thing never before accomplished . 
It spun the first thread ever spun in the history of the world without the intervention of human fingers . 
On that night woman lost her oldest and most significant title and function . 
The Spinster ceased to be . 
We all see what Wyatt's machine did to the maids . 
We all understand that when he started his mill at Birmingham and hired his working force of TEN GIRLS , he prophesied the factory slum . 
We do not yet realize what he did to the mistresses , how he utterly changed their character and how he marvelously increased their number . 
It created the need of leadership , of MULTITUDINOUS leadership . 
And with leadership came the rewards of leadership . 
arose in thousands and hundreds of thousands and millions to live in leisure and semi leisure on the fruits of the new system . 
While the maids went to the slums , the mistresses went to the suburbs . 
Looking at it in that way , one sometimes doesn't feel so sorry for the maids . 
What did Wyatt get out of it ? Imprisonment for debt and the buzz of antiquarians above his rotted corpse . 
But Arkwright ! There was the man who foreshadowed , in his own career , the new aristocracy about to be evoked by the new machinery . 
He made spinning devices of his own . 
He used everybody else's devices . 
He lied in the patents . 
He sued infringers of them . 
He overlooked his defeats in the courts . 
And his son was England's richest commoner . 
It was the dawn of the day of common richness . 
The new aristocracy was as hospitably large as the old aristocracy had been sternly small . 
Before Wyatt , leisure had been the thinnest of exhalations along the very top of society . 
Since Wyatt , it has got diffused in greater and greater density through at least the upper third of it . 
by the labor of men , women , and children behind factory windows , the world over , to day . 
Marie's view of the situation , however , is the usual one . 
To get something for nothing is the fundamental immorality in the world . 
But we don't believe it . 
Marie didn't mean to commit a fraud . 
She just dropped a sentimental , non negotiable plugged nickel into the slot machine of life and drew out a motor car and a country place , and was innocently pleased . 
Perhaps the reason why she didn't catch on to the fact that , instead of being the world's creditor , she was really inhabiting an almshouse was that she was so busy . 
You see , she not only did things all the time but she had to find and invent them to do . 
When he wanted clothes he went to the nearest decent tailor . 
No such cinch for Marie . 
Her tailor lived in Sutherton , on the directly opposite side of the city from the suburb in which Marie lived . 
Just to get to that tailor's cost Marie an hour and a half of effort . 
Of course many forenoons had to be thus occupied . 
Besides , it gives employment to the tailors . 
This is the really meritorious function of the leisure class . 
And every extension of its tastes and needs gives more employment . 
In fact , Marie and her friends , in the course of a year , gave as much employment as a fair sized earthquake . 
That is , in the course of a year , they destroyed , without return , a large amount of wealth and set many people to work replacing it . 
If we had a large enough leisure class we should have no need of fires and railroad wrecks and the other valuable events which increase our prosperity by consuming it . 
Marie belonged to the real Consumers' League . 
And she consumed prettily and virtuously . 
It wasn't bad air that suffocated her soul . 
She thought she was breathing , however , and breathing fast . 
Her brother , when he went to work , was her junior . 
In five years he was much her senior . 
Marie was not a minute older now than when she left school . 
Talking to her at twenty six was exactly the same experience as talking to her at twenty one . 
That was what the world , from John Wyatt to her father , had done for her . 
From such a life there are necessarily revulsions . 
The empty leisure of the Nice Girl is quite successfully total waste . 
But it becomes intolerable to that waster who , though not desiring genuine occupation , desires genuine sensation . 
Every social group in which there is much leisure has its own smart set . 
There may be a million dollars a year to spend . 
There may be only a few thousands . 
But there is always a smart set . 
How suddenly its smartness may follow its leisure , how accurately its plunge into luxury may duplicate the suddenness of modern luxury itself , you may observe with your own eyes almost anywhere . 
You see a little crowd of women come into the Mandarin Tea Room of the St . 
DuBarry in Novellapolis in the fresh West . 
How rapid it all is ! There's Margaret Simpson . 
A few years ago you might have seen her pumping the water for Jim's breakfast , cleaning the lamps , and picking bugs off the potato vines . 
Then he struck it rich . 
He owns a bunch of moving picture places . 
He manufactures a patented bottle stopper . 
His wife has just as much leisure as any duchess . 
The duchess has her individual estate and resources , which make it possible for her to lead an almost complete social life within her own walls . 
At luncheon she ate only puree of tomatoes , creamed chicken and sweetbreads , Boston brown bread and butter , orange punch and Lady Baltimore cake , severely cutting out the potatoes . 
and a couple of fitters and a head fitter . 
It ended up with Do you mean to tell me that after all the reducing and dieting I've been doing I can't wear under a twenty seven ? It's ridiculous . 
Measure me for a made to order . 
These stock sizes all run large . 
If it's made to order I can wear a twenty six as easy as anybody . 
Then she met up with her friends at the St . 
You watch the waiter bring another round of drinks and you perceive that the evening is well under way and that the peak of the twenty four hours is being disputatiously approached . 
It appears that Perinique's is a swell place to dine , but that the cheese is bad . 
The cheese is good right here at the St . 
DuBarry , but they don't know how to toast the biscuits . 
At the Grunewurst the waiters are poor . 
At Max's the soup is always cold . 
The mural decorations at the Prince Eitel are so gloomy they give you a chill . 
Despair settles down on the scene . 
There seems to be no likelihood that there will be any dinner at all anywhere . 
A ray of light penetrates with the inquiry whether you saw the way Jim looked at Dora last night . 
If I was you , Margaret , and MY husband looked at Dora like that , I . 
No wonder Dora's husband divorced her . 
The trouble with Margaret is she's too good to Jim . 
If she had any sense she could make him so jealous he'd stand on his head for her . 
Why don't you tell Ned to cut in there and pay a little attention to Marge ? . 
Oh , Ned's no good . 
Well , I'll tell MY HUSBAND . 
Don't you do it I started my husband once on a thing like that and he . 
Call Ned on the 'phone . 
We'll eat at the Royal Gorge and I'll put 'em side by side . 
I'LL sit next to Jim and point it out to him . 
Say , Marge , it's a good thing you've got on your white broadcloth and those willow plumes . 
You can get 'em at Delatour's now for twenty five dollars . 
Say , I called Ned on the 'phone and what do you think ? He's got an engagement for to night . 
Say , here's Dora now . 
Dora Got to sweep right along . 
Goin' to buzz out to the Inland Inn for dinner with Ned . 
Talk of nerve ! Exit Dora . 
Points gaunt finger at ex members of Lone Tree Crossing Sewing Circle . 
Says Back to your kitchens , women , and get supper for your husbands . 
Onlookers Great ! Enter husbands , about to dine with the women right there , or at some other place where dinner is cooked and ready . 
Stern Moralist turns to husbands . 
Does he ? Why not ? Stern Moralist Back to the woodshed and chop the kindling for your wife to get supper with . 
Onlookers Police ! Arrest that man ! He's crazy . 
Jim asks where Dora is . 
Details of Dora's divorce begin to fly about . 
Harry orders a round of drinks . 
Somebody praises the drawn butter sauce at the Suddington . 
This is met with the merits of the pineapple parfait at the La Fontaine . 
Jim thinks Dora's divorce was her husband's fault . 
Margaret gets up and goes back to the Purple Parlor and cries . 
Bessie begins to tell Jim how attentive Ned is to Margaret . 
This is so helpful that Jim gets up to find Margaret and tell her what he thinks of her . 
Finds her crying and thinks she is crying because Ned is away with Dora . 
Terrible row in Purple Parlor . 
Bessie starts in to explain . 
Everybody stands about in couples explaining . 
Waiter runs around trying to find gen'l'man to pay for undrunk drinks . 
Poor Frank , being the only member of the party who hasn't been drinking , is so sober that he pays . 
He finally corrals the whole crowd into a couple of taxi cabs . 
They go down the street with everybody's head out of the cab window and everybody's voice saying The Suddington , The Grunewurst , Max's , The Royal Gorge , Perinique's . 
The revulsion from empty leisure in the direction of full every night leisure is balanced to some extent by a revulsion toward activity of a useful sort . 
This latter revulsion has two phases Economic Independence , which has been spoken of in former articles Social Service and Citizenship , which will be spoken of next month . 
With marriage , of course , Marie had a certain opportunity to get back into life . 
She had before her at least fifteen years of real work . 
And it would have been work of the realest sort . 
The inertia of her mind carried her to the ultimate logic of her life . 
Along about the time of her marriage she began to cease to be the typical normal girl of her type . 
She became a woman of the future OF HER TYPE . 
From the facts of modern idleness the positive character reacts toward new found activity toward an enormous , never before witnessed expenditure of intelligent care on children toward self support toward civic service . 
The character which is neither positive nor negative runs along as a neutral mixture of modern facts and of old ideals of casual idling and of casual child rearing . 
The negative character like Marie's just yields to the facts and is swept along by them into final irresponsibility and inutility . 
Marie wasn't negative enough she wasn't positive enough in her negativeness to plunge into dissipation . 
It wasn't in her nature to do any plunging of any kind . 
Good , safe , motionless sponging was her instinct . 
And she will die in the odor of tubbed and scrubbed respectability . 
And if you knew her you would like her very much . 
No shallow cynicism , this ! Just plain , bald truth without any wig on it . 
The only thing that you could put your finger on that Marie really did was so to wear clothes and so to give parties as to be the barometer of her husband's prosperity . 
And in every city you can see lots of such barometers giving themselves an artificially high reading in order to create that atmosphere of success which is a recognized commercial asset . 
Chunk was hugely pleased with Marie . 
She looked good at the dinner table in the cafe of their apartment building . 
She knew how to order the right dishes when they entertained and dined down town . 
She made it possible for him to return deftly and engagingly the social attentions of older people . 
No struggle in Marie's life so far ! No HAVING to swim in the cold water of daily enforced duty or else sink . 
NO BEING ACCUSTOMED TO THE DISAGREEABLE FEEL OF THAT WATER . 
She had missed being HARDENED to work . 
The first demand ever made on her for really disagreeable effort came when Chunk , in order to get a new factory going , had to move for a while to Junction City . 
When Marie bitterly and furiously objected , Chunk was severely astonished . 
Why , he had to go ! It was necessary . 
But there had been no necessity in Marie's experience . 
They became quarrelsome about it . 
Marie talked about her mother and her friends and how she loved them and stayed . 
For two years she inhabited Chunk's flat in the city and lived on Chunk's monthly check . 
She and Chunk were married . 
Chunk was to support her . 
Her father used to support her . 
Her job then was being nice . 
That was her job now . 
And she was still supported . 
When Chunk came back from Junction City and was really convinced that she didn't want children he was not merely astonished . 
He thought the world had capsized . 
In a way he was right . 
The world is turning round and over and back to that one previous historical era when the aversion to childbearing was widespread . 
Once , just once , before our time , there was a modern world . 
Once , just once , though not on the scale we know it , there was , before us , a diffusion of leisure . 
The Romans conquered the world by military force , just as we have conquered it by mechanical invention . 
They lived on the plunder of despoiled peoples just as we live on the products of exploited continents . 
They had slaves in multitudes just as we have machines in masses . 
Along with leisure and semi leisure , they acquired its consequences , just as we have acquired them . 
And the sermons of Augustus Caesar , first hero of their completed modernity , against childlessness are perfect precedents for those of Theodore Roosevelt , first hero of ours . 
It was the satirists who addressed themselves particularly to the women . 
Now it could not have been the woman who desires economic independence through self support who was responsible for the ultimate aversion to childbearing in the Roman world for SHE did not exist . 
It could not have been the woman who desires full citizenship for she did not exist . 
They tell us it was luxury that ruined the Romans . 
But was luxury the START ? Wasn't it only the means to the FINISH ? Eating a grouse destroys in itself , no more moral fiber than eating a ham sandwich . 
Bismarck , whether he slept on eider down or on straw , arose Bismarck . 
The person who has a job and who does it is very considerably immunized against the consequences of luxury . 
First , because he is giving a return for it . 
Second , because he hasn't much time for it . 
Marie was as reasonable a proposition as that two and two make four . 
Her complete withdrawal from the struggle for existence had at last , in her negative , non resistive mind atrophied all the instincts of that struggle including finally the instinct for reproduction . 
The instinct for reproduction is intricately involved in the struggle for existence . 
The individual struggles for perpetuation , for perpetuation in person , for perpetuation in posterity . 
The individual , the class , which struggles no more will in the end reproduce itself no more . 
In not having had to conquer life , it has lost its will to live . 
The detailed daily reasons for this ultimate social law stand clear in Marie's life . 
And remember what sort of woman she was . 
The woman who is coerced by external , authoritative ideals will bear children even when the wish to bear them is really absent . 
She will bear them without thinking . 
She will bear them because she has never thought that anything else was possible . 
was free , wonderfully , unparalleledly free . 
She was free , though a leisured woman , from the requirement of an heir for a great family estate . 
She was free from the dictates of historic Christianity about conjugal duty and unrestricted reproduction . 
She was free from the old uncomplaining compliance with a husband's will . 
Modern life had done all this for her . 
She was uncoerced by family authority , ecclesiastical authority , or marital authority . 
She was limitlessly free , limitlessly irresponsible , a creature of infinite opportunities and no duties . 
With the petrifaction of its soil , it had withered away . 
She had been sedulously trained to sterility . 
Nevertheless , when it got talked around among her friends that she didn't want children , everybody thought it very surprising , in view of all that had been done for her . 
In the January number Mr. Hard will discuss The Women of To morrow in Civic Service . 
XXIII December No. pages are NOT numbered in the printed copy ! THE WATCHMAN And for fear of him the keepers did shake , and became as dead men . 
How beautiful thou art ! The years have brought An added splendor to thy loveliness , With passion of dark eye and lip rose red , Struggling between its dimple and its pride . 
Down in Jerusalem they slew a man , Or god . 
it may be that he was a god . 
Those mad , wild Jews whom Pontius Pilate rules . 
Thou knowest Pilate , Claudia a vain man , Too weak to govern such a howling horde As those same Jews . 
Wise , very wise , if he were only man , Not quite so wise if he were half a god ! I know that strange things happened when he died . 
At least he died and some few friends of his Took him and laid him in a garden tomb . 
A watch was set about the sepulchre , Lest these , his friends , should hide him and proclaim That he had risen as he had foretold . 
Laugh not , my Claudia . 
I laughed when I heard The prophecy I would I had not laughed ! I Maximus , was chosen for the guard , With all my trusty fellows . 
A faint wind stirred among the olive boughs . 
Then that dead man came forth . 
oh , Claudia , If thou couldst but have seen the face of him ! Never was such a conqueror ! Yet no pride Was in it . 
naught but love and tenderness , Such as we Romans scoff at , and his eyes Bespake him royal . 
Claudia , Scorn me not for this weakness it will pass Surely 'twill pass in time and I shall be Maximus strong and valiant once again , Forgetting that slain god . 
He looked as one who could not be forgot ! Vol . 
XXIII December No. THE MAN WHO MADE GOOD pages By ARTHUR STRINGER AUTHOR OF THE SILVER POPPY , PHANTOM HOUSE , ETC . 
Trotter opened his door and listened . 
Then he tiptoed out to the stairhead . 
The house lay beneath him as still as a well . 
It was nothing more than a three tiered cavern of quietness . 
So he crept back to his own room and closed and locked the door after him . 
But the room was quiet , and , what counted more , it was cheap . 
The thought of ever being put out of it terrified the frugal minded Trotter . 
For seven weary months he had wandered about New York's skyline , looking for just the right corner , as peevish as a cow bird looking for a copse nest . 
Yet Mrs. Teetzel's laws were adamantine . 
Her rule was as Procrustean as her thin lashed eyes were inquisitive . 
She daily inspected both her lavishly distributed lambrequins and her gentleman roomers' mail , with an occasional discreet excursion into their unlocked trunks . 
Cooking in a bedroom was as illicit as private laundry work in the second floor bathtub . 
So Trotter , once back in his own quarters , moved about with a caution not untouched with apprehension . 
Mrs. Teetzel , he knew had a tread that was noiseless . 
She also had the habit of appearing , in curl papers , at uncouth moments , as unheralded as an apparition from the other world . 
And Trotter's conscience was not clear . 
For months past he had kept secreted in his trunk one of those single holed gas heaters known as a hot plate . 
This he surreptitiously attached to the gas jet , and secretly thereon made coffee and cooked his matutinal hard boiled egg . 
There was a thrill of excitement about it , a tang of outlawry , a touch of danger . 
It took on the romance of a vast hazard . 
And it also rather suited his purse , since that particular newspaper office which he had journeyed to New York both to augment and to uplift showed no undue haste in receiving him . 
His third and last assault on the Advance office , in fact , had amounted to an unequivocal ejection . 
Three short questions from the shirt sleeved autocrat of that benzine odored bedlam had led to Trotter's undoing . 
He was disgustedly told to go out and make good , instead of coming round and bothering busy people . 
And Trotter went meekly out . 
But he had not made good . 
He drifted hungrily about the great new city , the city that seemed written in a cipher to which he could find no key . 
He even guardedly shadowed the resentful eyed Advance reporters on their morning assignments , to get some chance inkling of the magic by which the trick was turned . 
He wandered about the river front and the ship wharves and the East Side street markets . 
From all this he was not learning Journalism . 
He was , however , learning New York . 
But now he had struck luck sudden and unlooked for in the humble creation of rhyme ads for a Sixth Avenue furniture store . 
And now Trotter looked about the room , thoughtfully , and decided it was time to act . 
All record of this past orgy would have to be wiped out . 
The window , he knew , was impossible , for already there had been divers complaints as to the mysterious showers of eggshell which day by day fell into the area below . 
So Trotter laid several newspapers together . 
It had been a fine turkey , and done to a turn . 
But all along Trotter had been wondering just how he was going to get rid of those telltale bones . 
But now he knew there was only one way to solve the problem . 
And that was to wrap the remains carefully together , tie them up , and make his escape down through the quiet house into the midnight street . 
II Trotter crept down through the quiet house with all the trepidation of a sneak thief . 
His one dread was the apparition of Mrs. Teetzel she would naturally surmise he was making away with the bedroom stoneware , or the door knobs , or even the lead piping . 
He felt freer when he had once gained the street . 
But no peace of mind could be his , he knew , until he had utterly discarded those carefully wrapped turkey bones . 
It would be easy enough to toss them into an areaway , if the worst came to the worst . 
He looked up and down the street for a garbage can . 
But there was none in sight . 
So he walked toward the avenue corner , with his parcel under his arm . 
There he turned south , and at the next corner swung about west again . 
But the right chance to get rid of his turkey bones had not come . 
He suddenly remembered that the police had the habit of holding up belated parcel carriers and inspecting what they carried . 
So he quickened his steps . 
But all the while he was covertly on the lookout for his dumping spot . 
A moment later he saw a patrolman on the street corner ahead of him . 
He dreaded the thought of passing those scrutinizing eyes . 
He eventually decided it would be too risky . 
So he doubled on his own tracks , rabbit like , crossing the street and turning north at the next corner . 
He had had enough of the whole thing . 
It was getting to be more than a joke . 
He would shilly shally no longer , even though he had to toss the cursed thing up on a house step . 
He let the parcel slip lower down on his arm , with one finger crooked through the string that tied it together . 
Trotter quickened his steps , tingling , abashed , shaken with an inordinate and ridiculous sense of guilt . 
He felt that he wanted to keep out of the light , that he ought to skulk in the shadows until he was free of the weight on his arm . 
He hurried on until he became desperate , determined to end the farce at any hazard . 
So , as he passed a building where a house front was being converted into a low windowed shop face , he dropped the paper package into an abandoned mortar box . 
He was startled , a moment later , by a voice calling sharply after him Hi , yuh ! You've dropped y'ur bundle ! Trotter turned guiltily about . 
It was a night watchman . 
He stepped slowly out to the mortar box as he spoke , and picked up the parcel . 
There was nothing for Trotter to do but go back and take it . 
He mumbled something he scarcely remembered whether it was a word of explanation or of thanks . 
But he felt the eye of the night watchman boring through him like a gimlet , and he was glad to edge off and be on his way again . 
By this time Trotter could feel the sweat of embarrassment on his tingling body . 
He began to dramatize ridiculous contingencies . 
He pictured himself as haled into night court , as cross examined by domineering and incredulous magistrates , who would send him to the Island as a suspicious person . 
He began to be haunted by the impression that he was being followed . 
The parcel became a weight to him , a disheartening and dragging weight . 
He was now sure he was being followed . 
He squinted back over his shoulders , only to catch sight of a nocturnal bill sniper placarding vulnerable areas with his lithographed laudations of a vaudeville dancing woman . 
A child murderer burdened with the body of his victim could not have been more ill at ease , more timorous , more terrified . 
A sudden idea came to him as he passed a Chinese laundry in which lights still burned and irons still thumped on an ironing board . 
It was an audacious one , but it pointed toward deliverance . 
His plan was to enter the laundry and pass over his parcel , as though it were his week's washing . 
He would be gone before they had discovered its contents . 
He merely needed to be offhand and nonchalant . 
More than once he had seen dilapidated actors carrying a limited wardrobe to the laundry at equally small hours of the night . 
And the sloe eyed iron thumpers would never again get sight of him ! But it took a moment or two to key himself up to the right pitch . 
He stepped in beside one of the granite column bases of the First National Trust , to give an extra tug to his still lagging courage . 
A wave of exasperation swept through him at the thought of his own white livered irresolution . 
He was about to step forward to face the end of his dilemma when an unlooked for movement occurred between him and the illuminated laundry front . 
It was the movement of a shadowy figure which seemed , at first sight , to erupt from the earth itself . 
But this was not the thing that held Trotter's attention . 
The discovery which was causing his eyes to follow every step of the stranger was the fact that this second man ALSO CARRIED A LARGE PAPER PARCEL UNDER HIS ARM . 
He turned eastward without looking back . 
Yet there was something circumspect in his footfall , something suspicious in the very casualness of his movements . 
Trotter leaned out and looked after him , nonplused by the coincidence , wondering if this second man's mission was the same as his own . 
He was almost glad to see somebody in the same boat . 
He turned and followed the other man . 
He walked eastward , keeping as well in to the house shadows as he could . 
Then there was a movement which Trotter could not quite make out . 
It was not until he crossed the street that he saw what the movement meant . 
The other man , without so much as stopping for a second , had quietly dropped his paper wrapped parcel on the top of the galvanized barrel . 
At no time did Trotter feel that there was anything momentous in the movement . 
But it aroused his curiosity . 
It set off his inquisitive young soul into spreading pyrotechnics of imagination . 
And he realized , as he walked up to the barrel , that his earlier sense of timidity had disappeared . 
He quite calmly lifted the parcel from the barrel top . 
Then he quite calmly dropped the other parcel in its place . 
He was a little astonished , as he started on again , at the pregnant weight of this new parcel . 
But he did not stop to investigate . 
He did not care to gulp and lose the mystery at one swallow . 
He scurried off with it , chucklingly , like a barnyard hen with a corncob , to peck at it in solitude . 
He swung south and then west again , to his own street . 
He went up his own steps , through his own door , and up to his own top floor room with the rakish back wall . 
There he cautiously lighted the gas , drew the blinds , and locked himself in . 
Next , he dragged a chair over to the bedside , sat down on it , and carefully untied the parcel string . 
Then , with somewhat accelerated pulse , he unwrapped the paper screened enigma . 
A little puff of ironic disappointment escaped his pursed up lips . 
For at one glance he could see that it held no mystery . 
The only mystery about it all was that he had been theatrical enough to imagine it could prove anything that was not sordid and worthless . 
For lying on the paper before him was nothing more than a litter of mortar and wall plaster , interspersed with stone chips . 
It was nothing more than the sweepings a brick layer had left behind him , a pile of worthless rubbish , a bundle of refuse , another white elephant on his hands . 
Trotter stirred the heap of dust and lime , impassively , disdainfully . 
There was nothing more than an occasional brick corner , an occasional piece of wall plaster . 
The only other thing was one larger fragment of stone . 
Trotter looked at it indolently . 
And he had been fool enough to cart it up four flights of stairs ! He turned the piece of stone over in his hands . 
It was of porphyritic granite , with distinct crystals of feldspar embedded in a fine grained matrix . 
Trotter's brow wrinkled in vague thought as he peered down at it . 
He was trying to think what it reminded him of , what possible link it made in a chain of lost association . 
It was toward the pillars of the First National Trust Building that his mind was trying to grope . 
They were of the same stuff , highly polished porphyritic granite , the pride and wonder of the avenue along which they made a burnished and flashing peristyle . 
Trotter rubbed his chin , meditatively , and once more examined the stone . 
Then he took a sudden deeper breath , and , leaning hurriedly forward , raked through the parcel with his fingers . 
He found nothing of note . 
III It was nine o'clock the next morning when Trotter , carrying a parcel of laundry , walked casually past the First National Trust Building and turned the corner . 
Below this was a basement , a cellar as narrow and dark as a cistern . 
A flight of perilously inclined steps led to the door of this basement . 
This door , in turn , was glass fronted , but protected by a heavy woven wire grating . 
On it was a sign which read J. HEENEY . 
PLUMBING , WIRING AND ELECTRIC SUPPLIES . 
It was this basement which so inordinately interested Trotter . 
He essayed several mild inquiries , in handing his frugal parcel of washing over the Chinaman's counter , as to the occupant of the cellar below . 
About J. Heeney , however , he discovered nothing beyond the fact that he had occupied the cellar for several months . 
Trotter did not want to arouse unnecessary suspicion by overinterrogating J. Heeney's neighbors . 
So he went mildly back to his top floor room , and sat down and tried to study things out . 
As he sat there wrapped in thought , his idly wandering gaze rested on the electric bell above the door . 
He looked at it for several seconds . 
Then he stood on a chair and twisted away the bell's wiring . 
Using his pocket knife as a screwdriver , he released the bell from the door lintel . 
Then he cleaned and polished it . 
This done , he removed the clapper , wrapped the bell up in a piece of newspaper , and made his unhesitating way back to the cellar beneath the Chinese laundry . 
He was very much awake as he went slowly down the narrow steps . 
He wanted nothing to escape his notice . 
He found the wire screened door at the bottom locked . 
But he could get a clear enough view of the interior , even through the dirty glass . 
The entire space within was not more than ten feet wide and eight feet deep . 
Across the back of the shop ran a wooden partition , plainly shutting off the main part of the cellar . 
In this partition , Trotter's careful scrutiny discovered , stood a narrow door . 
He ached to know what lay behind that door and that partition . 
But he had to be content with the shallower shop front . 
So he was not hurried in his inspection of it . 
It was not until he had fixed the details of the entire place in his mind that he ventured to knock . 
There was no answer to his knock . 
Yet it was plain that some one was inside , for he could see the key in the lock , through the dirty glass . 
Who that person was he intended to find out . 
He was rattling the wire fretwork , impatiently , loudly , when the partition door swung open . 
Through this door stepped a short and extremely broad shouldered man . 
There was no trace of annoyance on his face . 
In fact , much to Trotter's vague disappointment , he was smiling , smiling easily and broadly . 
He wore a workman's jumper , stained with oil and iron rust , and in his hand he carried a large pair of pipe tongs . 
But these did not interest Trotter . 
What caught his eye was the fact that the man's boots were white with lime dust . 
Hold on , sister hold on ! said the man , with a laugh , for Trotter was still rattling the door . 
The owner stepped across his shop and turned the key in the lock . 
Hard to hear when I'm in doin' my lathe work , he explained , as he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand . 
All the while , as he swung back the door , his eyes were closely studying the eyes of the other man . 
Trotter noticed the row of matches stuck in the soiled hatband , and the cotton bag of Durham that swung from his sweat stained belt . 
What can I do for you , sister ? was his companionable greeting . 
Trotter unwrapped his electric bell . 
Can you give me a clapper for this ? he asked . 
The other man took the bell in his hand . 
Trotter could see powdered lime under his nails . 
I guess I can fix you out , said the shop owner . 
He turned to the door in the partition , and disappeared from sight , closing the door after him . 
Trotter's first decision had been to take the key from the outer door lock . 
But some sixth sense made him hesitate , prompted him to turn and look at the inner door . 
His stare was rewarded by the discovery of a hole in this door , about five feet from the floor . 
It was a lookout he felt sure he was being watched . 
So he thrust his hands into his pockets , gazed carelessly about the shop , and waited . 
The man reappeared , shaking his head . 
Nothing doing , he said . 
He was not able to fit a clapper to the bell . 
But I thought you kept electric supplies here , objected Trotter . 
His good nature was impregnable . 
Oh , I can get it , if you've got to have it . 
Come back about ten to morrow . 
All right , was Trotter's indifferent answer , as he turned languidly away . 
He went up the steps with equal languor , humming as he went . 
IV Trotter kept guarded watch on J. Heeney's plumbing establishment . 
He watched it like a hungry cat watching a rat hole . 
And it was three hours later that he had the satisfaction of seeing the plumber ascend to the street and walk hurriedly westward . 
Trotter could see that he carried a kit of tools under his arm . 
But to follow him in open daylight was too great a risk . 
Instead of that , he went down the narrow steps , and through the dusty glass examined the doorlock . 
Fifteen minutes later he went down another flight of basement steps , this time to the cellar of a Sixth Avenue locksmith . 
I've got a closet door locked shut on me , he explained . 
And I want a key to get it open . 
The locksmith looked him up and dow . 
n He seemed respectable enough , this mild eyed youth with the locked closet . 
But the locksmith knew the tricks of his trade . 
Then I'll take a bunch of blanks' over with me and open her up for you . 
I'd rather get her open by myself . 
It will cost you a dollar , was the locksmith's ultimatum . 
It's worth a dollar , agreed Trotter . 
But how'll we do it ? I'll dip a skeleton blank in hot wax and lampblack . 
Then you put the key in the lock and turn it as far as you can . 
That'll show the ward marks , where they bite the wax . 
Then bring me the key and I'll cut it . 
Maybe it'll take two cuttings . 
Instead of going back to the locksmith , he bought a ten cent file , and with his own hand cut away the blank according to the ward marks . 
Once more he made his way to the door of the empty shop and fitted his key . 
It turned part way round in the lock , but did not throw back the bar . 
He recoated the key flange with the black wax by holding it to a lighted match and letting it cool again . 
He at once saw where his cutting had been imperfect . 
A few strokes of his file remedied this . 
He once more fitted the key to the lock , and found that he was free to pass in and out of the door . 
Yet he deferred forcing an entrance , at the moment , hungrily as he studied the inner partition door through the iron grated glass . 
He knew what such a movement meant . 
He could not count on Heeney's continued absence . 
Above all , at this , the beginning of things , he wanted to avoid any untimely mis step . 
So he made his way to the street , shuttling cautiously back and forth across the avenue , aimless of demeanor , diffident of step , yet ever and always on the lookout . 
From half a block away he saw Heeney return to his cellar . 
From an even remoter stand , two hours later , he perceived the plumber emerge , like a rabbit out of its warren . 
He also perceived that the rapidly disappearing man carried a large paper parcel under his arm . 
As before , this parcel was carried for three blocks and then adroitly deposited on the top of an ash barrel . 
Trotter , once Heeney had skulked about the next corner , quietly crossed the street and sauntered past the parcel crowned barrel , with his open pocketknife in his hand . 
One sweep of the knife blade slit the paper wrapper , and without so much as stopping on his way Trotter was able to catch up a handful of the litter it held . 
This litter , as before , was made up of ground mortar and plaster and stone chips . 
But this time , amid the lime and dust , he could detect the glitter of minute particles of steel . 
He tested the larger fragments of these with his knife point . 
They were very hard , harder even than his tempered blade steel , diamond like in their durity . 
He concluded , as he sat on the edge of his bed that night , rubbing them between his fingers , that they could be nothing but particles of keenly tempered chromium steel . 
And chromium steel , he knew , was not used in gas pipes . 
It was foolish to think of it as a subject for lathe work . 
It was equally absurd to accept it as an everyday element in any plumber's everyday work . 
Trotter was not ignorant of the fact that steel of this character was used almost exclusively in the construction of high grade safes and bank vaults . 
He stood up , suddenly , and crossed the room to his little bookshelf . 
From this shelf he took down a much thumbed World Almanac , a paper bound volume which for months past had been serving as his only guide to New York . 
He turned to the pages headed Banks in Manhattan and Bronx . 
It took but a minute's search to secure the names of the president and cashier of the First National Trust Company . 
He began to realize the colossal wealth which lay guarded behind the great porphyritic granite pillars . 
He also began to realize some new and as yet undefined responsibility . 
V Early the next morning Trotter was back at the bank corner , like a guard at his sentry box . 
Five minutes later Trotter was descending the stairs that led to the plumber's shop . 
Once there , he took out his key , fitted it to the lock , opened the door , stepped quietly inside , and locked the outer door after him . 
Before venturing to open the inner door he pressed an ear flat against the wooden partition and stood there listening . 
He stepped to the side of the shop and caught up a plumber's thick bodied tallow candle . 
Then he softly opened the second door , stepped inside , and as softly closed the door after him . 
He found himself in perfect darkness . 
But he stood there , waiting , before venturing to move forward , before daring to strike a light . 
He knew , as he peered about the blackness that engulfed him , that he was now facing more than an indeterminate responsibility . 
He was confronting actual and immediate danger . 
The only thing that broke the silence was the faint sound of footsteps on the laundry floor above him , together with the steady thump of irons on the ironing table . 
There was something fortifying , something consoling , in those neighborly and sedentary little noises . 
Trotter struck a match and lighted his candle . 
He waited without moving for the flame to grow . 
Then he thrust the candle up before him . 
As he did so , his hand came in contact with the rough surface of what at first he took to be a stone wall . 
But as he looked closer he saw that it was not masonry . 
It was nothing more nor less than a carefully piled mass of stone and brick . 
Each fragment had been carefully placed on top of its fellow , each interstice had been carefully filled with rubble . 
The pile extended from floor to ceiling . 
It filled the entire cellar . 
It left only space enough for a man to pass inward from the opened door . 
It was nothing more than the dump of a mine , the rock and brick from a tunnel , not flung loosely about , but scrupulously stowed away . 
Holding the candle in front of him , Trotter bent low and groped his way in through the narrow passage . 
Everything was as orderly and hidden as the approach to a wild animal's lair . 
Everything was eloquent of a keen secretiveness . 
No betraying litter met his eye . 
Each move had been calmly and cautiously made . 
Each step of a complicated campaign had been quietly engineered . 
Trotter could even decipher a series of electric wires festooned from the little tunnel's top . 
A portion of this wall had been torn away . 
With equal care an inner coating of cement had been chiseled off , exposing to view an unbroken dark surface . 
As Trotter held the candle closer , he could see this dark surface marked off with chalk lines , sometimes with crosses , sometimes with figures he could not decipher . 
On it , too , he could see a solitary depression , as round and bright as a silver coin , as though a diamond drill had been testing the barrier . 
And he knew that Heeney had grubbed and eaten and burrowed his way , like a woodchuck , to the very heart of the First National Trust's wealth . 
It was only then that the stupendousness of the whole thing came home to Trotter . 
It was only then that he realized the almost superhuman cunning and pertinacity in this guileless eyed cellar plotter called Heeney . 
It filled him with an ever increasing passion to get away from the place , to escape while he still had a chance . 
It turned the gaseous underground tunnel into a stifling pit , making his breath come in short and wheezing gasps . 
It brought a tiny beaded sweat out on his chilled body . 
Then he stopped breathing altogether . 
He wheeled about and suddenly brought his thumb and forefinger together on the candle flame , pinching it out as one might pinch the life out of a moth . 
For on his straining ears fell the sound of a door slammed shut . 
There was no mistake , no illusion about it . 
Some one had entered the shop . 
Then came the sound of a second door . 
This time it was being opened . 
And it was the door leading into the tunnel . 
Trotter could see the momentary efflorescence of pale light at the bend in the passage before him . 
And he realized that he was unarmed . 
He had not even a crowbar , not even a chisel or wrench , with which to defend himself . 
He knew he stood there trapped and helpless . 
He shrank back , instinctively , without being conscious of the movement . 
He heard the sound of steps , shuffling and short . 
Then came an audible grunt , a grunt of relief . 
This was followed by the thump of a heavy weight dropped to the brick floor . 
Then came the sound of steps again , still shuffling and short . 
Trotter leaned forward , listening , waiting , with every nerve strained . 
He concentrated every sense on the blur of light along the tunnel wall before him . 
As he peered forward , scarcely daring to breathe , he was conscious of the fact that the light had suddenly withered . 
It vanished from the refracting tunnel sides , as though wiped away by an obliterating black sponge . 
Even before the truth of the thing had come home to him , he heard the sound of a quietly closed door . 
He had merely crept into his tunnel mouth , dropped some tools , and then quietly crept out again . 
It was not until he heard the slam of the outer door , a moment or two later , that Trotter felt sure of his deliverance . 
It was not until he knew his enemy was up the steps that he let his aching lungs gulp in the fetid tunnel air . 
He did nothing more than feel hurriedly over the bundle that lay in his path . 
It seemed an instrument of steel tied up in a cloth . 
He could feel strand after strand of wires , ductile and cloth covered wires . 
He could also decipher a disk through which ran a piece of metal , like a blade through a sword guard . 
He felt sure it was an electrode of some sort , a tool to convert stolen electricity into a weapon of offense and assault . 
But he neither waited to strike a light nor stooped to puzzle over the bundle . 
He paused for a minute to listen at the closed partition door . 
The only sound that came to his ears was the shuffle of feet and the thump from the ironing board above him . 
Yet when he opened this partition door he did so noiselessly , cautiously , slowly , inch by inch . 
Still screened in shadow , he studied the shop , the steps , the wire blurred window , the street above him . 
His face , as he came out to the light , was almost colorless . 
His eyes were wide and staring with wonder . 
He felt the necessity of guarding himself , for he was now a person of importance . 
He was an emissary of destiny , an agent entrusted with a vast issue . 
The streets through which he passed no longer frowned down at him from their inhospitable skylines . 
He was no longer an unattached and meaningless unit in the life that throbbed and roared all about him . 
He meant something to it . 
He was part of it . 
And it would acknowledge him , in the end , or he would know the reason why . 
VI Trotter sat peering mildly about him as that Gargantuan organism known as a newspaper office labored and shrieked in the birth of an afternoon edition . 
It interested him very much . 
But it no longer filled him with mingled fear and revolt . 
He was , indeed , no longer envious , just as he was no longer nervous . 
He was as calm as a Nihilist with a bomb in his pocket . 
Looking up , he saw that the office boy was holding the rail gate open for him to enter . 
It was a face full of that weary concern , that alert indifferency , which is companion to the spirit of repeated compromise . 
It was far from an open face it seemed to betray only two things , tiredness and satiric intelligence . 
The man at the desk did not even look up . 
He merely flung a barbed Well ? over his shoulder . 
It reminded Trotter of the preoccupied tail swish of a horse worried by a black fly . 
The side flick of one casual monosyllable was plainly all he was worth . 
I've been waiting for six months for a job on this paper , he began , quite seriously , quite deliberately . 
The man at the desk went on writing . 
The pen did not even stop . 
Yes ? This second monosyllable was neither an answer nor a question . 
It was merely an intimation that nothing of arresting moment had as yet been uttered . 
So I've come straight to you ! Yes ! This third exclamation was plainly a challenge to come to the issue in hand . 
I've been thrown down three Excuse me , the man at the desk had his hand on a desk 'phone standard , but you'd better see our city editor . 
I've seen the city editor four times . 
He only throws me out . 
For the first time Pyott , the managing editor , looked up . 
Then he swung about in his swivel chair and stared at the youth , the somewhat narrow chested and calm eyed youth who had the effrontery to sit down without being asked . 
The calm eyed youth seemed in no way daunted by the ordeal . 
What do you want ? was Pyott's quick and curt demand . 
Trotter could see that he had angered him . 
He could see a lean hand shoot out and a lean finger push down on the button that sounded a buzzer in the outer office . 
There's no use doing that till you've heard what I've got to say , announced Trotter . 
Why not ? snapped the man , with a finger still on the button . 
Because your man Hubbart out there told me not to stick my nose in here till I'd made good till I'd got a big story . 
And now I've got it . 
And I'm going to give you the biggest scoop you've printed in five years . 
That's interesting ! I'd never have had the nerve to face you if it wasn't . 
A boy appeared through the door . 
The editor swung back to his desk . 
Show this gentleman the way downstairs , he said , without anger , without resentment , without interest . 
Trotter stood up and stared at him . 
You mean you're not going to take this beat when I've got it right here to hand out to you ? he cried in his startled and high pitched voice . 
It's going to be stolen , every cent of it . 
The man at the desk smiled . 
It was a very faint and mirthless smile . 
You said that before , I think . 
But who's taking it ? One of the most accomplished crooks in all America . 
And from where ? was the next indulgent interrogation . 
From one of the richest banks in this city . 
Trotter's calm and deliberate tones were beginning to nettle the other man a little . 
Then it hasn't actually been done ? No ! Yet you know it IS to be done ? Yes ! Pyott was smiling by this time , quite broadly . 
And what were you doing with these particular turkey bones ? Putting them in a garbage can . 
Ah ! You were putting some turkey bones in a garbage can . 
And as you were about to do this ? I caught sight of another man also trying to get rid of a parcel . 
Turkey bones , of course . 
A butterball's bosom was no more impervious to slough water than the rapt eyed youth to the older man's irony . 
When I opened his parcel I found it held mortar and stone and some steel cuttings . 
And this led you to infer ? This led me to follow him . 
He had a basement , I found , directly in the rear of a bank building . 
What bank building ? That's my story . 
And I trust the locality agreed with him . 
Extremely well , was Trotter's mild toned reply . 
The man at the desk sighed and looked at the obsessed youth with a smile too impersonal to be called pitying . 
Vaults ! That's a matter for the police . 
This is a newspaper office . 
That's what I'm here for ! cried the exasperated youth . 
Still again the man at the desk eyed his visitor for a minute of silence . 
Then he reached for his telephone . 
I want Kendrick and Gilman for some city work . 
Send 'em in to me . 
Yes , right away , please . 
Pyott swung about to his visitor once more . 
I'm giving you our two best men . 
They'll do what you tell them to do . 
But that'll make it THEIR story ! objected Trotter . 
I want to land this myself . 
I want it to be mine . 
Then what am I to do ? Trotter scarcely knew . 
But he had not forgotten the thing he had waited and hungered for this many a month . 
Put me on your staff , first , so I can be acting for somebody . 
Still again the editor smiled . 
You're set on being one of us , aren't you ? I've got to have something behind me before I can tackle a job like this . 
All right , was the wearily indulgent answer , call yourself one of us . 
Now what else do you want ? I guess you'd better give me one of your workmen for a lookout , suggested the narrow chested youth . 
Then I'll land the story myself . 
The managing editor's finger end was once more on the buzzer . 
I'll give you Tiernan of the job room . 
He's Irish , and weighs two hundred . 
Is there anything else ? I s'pose I'll need a gun , ruminated the mild eyed youth . 
But I'm willing to buy that with my own money . 
It was not the purchase of the gun that was troubling him . 
It was the thought that he had never in all his life so much as discharged a revolver . 
He would not even know how to load it . 
But then Tiernan would doubtless be able to show him . 
A telephone bell was shrilling at the editor's elbow . 
Is that all ? demanded the impatient man of affairs as he turned to the 'phone . 
He called a cryptic sentence or two into the transmitter and slapped the receiver back on its hook . 
Yes , I guess that's all , answered the wide eyed boy , with his hat in his hand . 
Then go and make good , said the man at the desk as Tiernan swung in through the office door . 
Go and get your story ! VII In a newspaper office , where one impression so quickly and inevitably obliterates another , sensation is startling only in the fact of its ephemerality . 
For two busy hours wave after wave of the world's turbulence had beaten on the shoreline of the Advance staff's attention . 
Every one knew , from Pyott down , that the day was a big one . 
Can you come up here right away ? demanded the banker , in a voice of that coerced tranquillity into which the trained mind translates itself when face to face with undue excitement . 
No I can't ! Why can't you ? Well , among other things , I've got the trifling matter of a paper to put to press . 
Tell me what you're talking about , or ring off . 
He Ah , Trotter ! exclaimed Pyott . 
He was at last beginning to see light . 
I've got him and your job room man named Tiernan up here , but I can't do anything with Trotter . 
He's mad , mad as a March hare . 
Says he's got to get his story down to you for to day's issue . 
Then young Trotter got his story , after all ? Got his story ? Of course he got it . 
And in another four hours that safe cracker would have drilled right into our vitals . 
I tell you we can't imperil our institution this way . 
We can't let that stuff get out . 
We can't do it ! Nobody's going to break your nice new bank , Obed ! You run down here in a taxi and we'll try to straighten things out . 
D'you mean he's hurt ? No , no ! We've identified him as Missouri Horton of the Scott Gang he got a Sing Sing life sentence for yegg work in Yonkers . 
But Burns tells me he had enough money buried away to buy Tammany influence and get paroled . 
And you say you've got Trotter right there with you ? Yes , but he's acting like a madman , in the Vice President's private room . 
Again there was a moment's silence . 
Then give him ink and paper give him lots of it . 
Tell him I've said for him to write the story THERE . 
Then I'll tame him down , later . 
Meanwhile , you'd better clean house up there so you can officially contradict the whole story if the yellows happen to get after you . 
But nothing can get out , I tell you , unless you PUT it out ! Then what are you worrying about ? Young Trotter says he's got to send his stuff in . 
He's not satisfied with the mere idea of writing it . 
Then give him one of your men , two of your men , for carriers . 
Tell him to keep sending his copy down in relays , as he writes it . 
But don't let him get away . 
Oh , I'll hold him here if I have to nail him to the floor . 
I tell you , a thing like this would shake public confidence . 
It'd be worse than a fireproof hotel going up in flames . 
It would mean an alarming and immediate depreciation in our credit , a deplorable Of course it would . 
Come down as soon as you can and tell me all that . 
I'll have more time then . 
Pyott hung up the receiver . 
He poised for one brief and immobile moment , deep in thought , before he swung about to the three exigent figures making signs for his attention . 
Then the thin featured , many wrinkled , weary eyed face relaxed in an almost honest and unequivocal smile . 
VIII Trotter , shut in the Vice President's private office , paid little attention to his surroundings . 
He did not even know that the desk on which he wrote was of mahogany . 
He did not notice the imported Daghestan under his feet . 
He was unconscious of the orchids in the low desk vase of French silver . 
He was oblivious of the onyx and marble elegance that surrounded him . 
All he knew was that he had paper and ink in plenty and the Greatest Story of the Age to write . 
He made space for himself and his work . 
He wrote with all the rhapsodic passion of a god creating a new world . 
He began with a preamble that would have broken a copy reader's heart . 
He followed it up with atmospheric discursiveness that would have worn away an editor's blue pencil . 
He told how Steam and Steel were supposed to have crushed the Spirit of Romance out of the age . 
He pointed out how the modern city of stone and concrete seemed no longer to house that wayward and retrospective spirit in which the heart of the poet has forever reveled . 
Then he sought to demonstrate how true Romance can never die , how Wonder is all about even the Wall Street clerk and the five o'clock commuter . 
He put forward the claim that modern New York was as potentially picturesque , as alluringly labyrinthine , as olden Bagdad itself . 
He argued that the Thousand and One Tales were nightly recurring in our very midst , only we had neither the eyes nor the leisure to observe them . 
He told of the strange underworlds hidden from the casual eye , of subterranean rivers of life which Respectability never sees . 
He showed how it was only the face of life that had changed . 
It was a very rhythmical piece of fine writing , and he had his coat off and was working in his shirt sleeves before he had advanced six pages into it . 
Then he veered about to the story itself . 
He enlarged on the amount of wealth harbored by a national bank . 
Then he told how an idea had come to the mind of an idle yegg named Missouri Horton . 
Trotter's sallow young face grew chalkier as he wrote , though he was unconscious of either effort or weariness . 
They brought him luncheon , in due time , on a napkin covered tray . 
He lifted the napkin peevishly , took a disdainful look at the food , gulped down a cup of black coffee , and pushed the mess away from him . 
He had serious work in hand . 
He wrote on , unconscious of time . 
His mind seemed to sway , hypnotically , with the reverberations of his own rhetoric . 
Then he told how the tunnel was begun , how brick by brick and stone by stone a passage was grubbed through every obstacle . 
Your story is great , this note had read . 
Trotter merely gave the scrawl a second hurried glance . 
It did not excite him it did not intoxicate . 
He was already drunk with the wine of creation , as delirious as a whirling dervish . 
And he knew he still had work to do . 
A white whiskered gentleman wearing a pearl buttoned white waistcoat stepped quietly up to the office door and peered guardedly in over his glasses . 
Then he tip toed away unseen , with a condoning smile on his astute and thin nosed old face . 
Trotter had no thought or memory of his surroundings . 
It was his Story the Story of his life . 
He was now in the very vortex of his story . 
He told how he had posted Tiernan at the head of the steps leading down into the plumber's shop . 
He cunningly enlarged on the huge Irishman's bewilderment , his incredulity , his blasphemously reiterated demand to know what it was all about . 
He told how he himself had silently entered the shop , how he had crept through to the second door , how he had waited for a moment to take out his revolver . 
He described the hot and reeking air of the tunnel as he crept into its mouth . 
He pictured the sudden glare of light at the shaft end where Horton stood burning away an outer vault wall with an electrode . 
He told how he crept up on the man , step by step , with his revolver in his hand . 
Horton had quickly swung about he was , in fact , groping along the passage floor for a two quart tin pail partly filled with tap water . 
The glare had blinded him , for the time being , and he was in reality feeling for a drink . 
But the Advance reporter had thought the movement meant that his presence was discovered . 
And the two men had come together . 
Trotter told of the fight there , hand to hand , in the choking tunnel with its tangle of deadly currents . 
He confessed that he had been excited and foolish enough to lose the revolver . 
He mentioned his indignation when he saw that the other man was actually trying to use his teeth . 
Then he had grown desperate . 
He had apparently gone mad . 
He had started to use his own teeth . 
He had set his jaw on the yeggman's hand as it groped for his throat . 
He had caught the index finger of the other blackened hand and levered it savagely backward , backward until the bone broke and it hung limp on the tortured tendon . 
He had sent the relaxed head skidding against the tunnel wall , once , twice , three times , until the sweat stained arms fell away and left him free . 
He had sat there for many minutes , stupidly staring at the unconscious man . 
Trotter poured his ardent and exultant young soul into it . 
But one thing sustained and consoled him . 
He knew , as he whisked down to the Advance office in the Vice President's French touring car , that his work was done . 
He also knew that it was well done . 
It did not even startle him when Pyott himself held out a cold fingered hand . 
Good business ! was his chief's sardonic commendation . 
Then I've made good ? asked the weary youth , without enthusiasm . 
You've made your TEN STRIKE ! was the answer . 
You're on the city staff at twenty dollars a week . 
When do I have to go over my proofs ? asked the tired eyed and innocent youth . 
What proofs ? My story proofs ! Pyott forced his eyes to meet those of the pale faced boy looking up at him . 
The managing editor did so without an outward flinch . 
He was more or less used to such things . 
You've made good , my boy ! He casually turned away before he spoke the next sentence . 
BUT WE'VE HAD TO KILL THAT STORY OF YOURS ! Trotter did not move . 
He did not even gulp . 
He merely closed his tired eyes and at the same time let his lower lip fall a trifle away from the upper , as his breath came brokenly between them . 
For they had done more than kill his story . 
They had killed the spirit of Youth in him . 
There would be other battles , he knew , and perhaps other victories but never again that fine , careless rapture of Youth ! For they had killed his firstborn ! Vol . 
This news item provoked the ridicule of the people who don't believe in ghosts , but the joke was on Mr. Ayer of Boston . 
He was simply open minded . 
Maybe the soul of man is immortal . 
The professors couldn't prove it wasn't , so James was willing to open his mind to evidence . 
He was willing to hunt for evidence , and to be convinced by it . 
And in that he was simply keeping America's promise he was actually doing what we , as a nation , proclaimed that we would do . 
He was tolerant he was willing to listen to what seems preposterous , and to consider what might , though queer , be true . 
And he showed that this democratic attitude of mind is every bit as fruitful as the aristocratic determination to ignore new and strange looking ideas . 
He gave all men and all creeds , any idea , any theory , any superstition , a respectful hearing . 
His interest in spiritualism is merely one illustration in a thousand . 
So he went to Mrs. Piper , and heard her out . 
Nay , he listened to Palladino and to Munsterberg . 
They pretended to know , and maybe they did . 
James went to Shakespeare and read the plays all over again to test the Harris theory . 
Maybe the poet could be known by his works . 
The fact that the theory was revolutionary did not alter the possibility that it might be true . 
A scientist , living in an age when science is dogmatically irreligious , he turned from its cocksure reasoning to ask for the facts . 
He went to the lives of the saints ! Not to Herbert Spencer , you see . 
When he wanted to study the religious experience he went to the people who had had it , to Santa Theresa and Mrs. Eddy . 
They might know something the professors didn't know . 
And again at the age of sixty five , with the whole of New England's individualism behind him , he asked about socialism . 
When he met H. G. Wells , he listened to the socialist , and , as it happens , was converted . 
I think he would have listened with an open mind to the devil's account of heaven , and I'm sure he would have heard him out on hell . 
James knew that he didn't know . 
He never acted upon the notion that the truth was his store of wisdom . 
Perhaps that is why he kept on rummaging about in other people's stores , and commending their goods . 
He felt with all sorts of men . 
He understood their demand for immediate answers to the great speculative questions of life . 
We cannot wait for a final solution . 
Our daily life is full of choices that we cannot dodge , and some guide we simply must have . 
There can be no loitering at the crossroads . 
That is the famous position taken in The Will to Believe . 
As James has once pointed out , its real title should have been The Right to Believe . 
No doctrine in James's thinking has been more persistently misunderstood . 
James has acted upon that right . 
He has made a picture compounded of the insights of feeling , the elaborations of reason , and the daily requirements of men . 
It is a huge guess , if you like , to be verified only at the end of the world . 
But it has made many men at home in the universe . 
And this democrat understood the need of feeling at home in the world , and he understood also that the aristocrats are not at home here . 
The luxurious classes , he says , are blind to man's real relation to the globe he lives on , and to the permanently hard and solid foundations of his higher life . 
It is an encouraging thought that America should have produced perhaps the most tolerant man of our generation . 
As every one knows , he fought hard for his ideas , because he believed in them , and because he wanted others to believe in them . 
The propagandist was strong in William James . 
He wished to give as well as receive . 
And he listened for truth from anybody , and from anywhere , and in any form . 
And he told his conclusions . 
He told them , too , without the expert's arrogance toward the man in the street , and without the dainty and finicky horror of being popular and journalistic . 
He would quote Mr. Dooley on God to make himself understood among men . 
He would have heard God gladly in the overalls of a carpenter , even though He came to preach that the soul of man is immortal . 
So open minded was he so very much of a democrat . 
