The Battle of Life by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
It was fought upon a long summer day when the waving grass was green . 
Many a wild flower formed by the Almighty Hand to be a perfumed goblet for the dew , felt its enamelled cup filled high with blood that day , and shrinking dropped . 
Many an insect deriving its delicate colour from harmless leaves and herbs , was stained anew that day by dying men , and marked its frightened way with an unnatural track . 
The painted butterfly took blood into the air upon the edges of its wings . 
But , there were deep green patches in the growing corn at first , that people looked at awfully . 
Year after year they re appeared and it was known that underneath those fertile spots , heaps of men and horses lay buried , indiscriminately , enriching the ground . 
For a long time , every furrow that was turned , revealed some fragments of the fight . 
Where the wild flowers and berries had so long remained upon the stem untouched , gardens arose , and houses were built , and children played at battles on the turf . 
The wounded trees had long ago made Christmas logs , and blazed and roared away . 
The deep green patches were no greener now than the memory of those who lay in dust below . 
So altered was the battle ground , where thousands upon thousands had been killed in the great fight . 
It was charming to see how these girls danced . 
They had no spectators but the apple pickers on the ladders . 
and you could no more help admiring , than they could help dancing . 
How they did dance ! Not like opera dancers . 
And not like Madame Anybody's finished pupils . 
It was not quadrille dancing , nor minuet dancing , nor even country dance dancing . 
At last , the younger of the dancing sisters , out of breath , and laughing gaily , threw herself upon a bench to rest . 
The other leaned against a tree hard by . 
The apple pickers on the ladders raised a hum and murmur of applause , and then , in keeping with the sound , bestirred themselves to work again like bees . 
For he was a great philosopher , Doctor Jeddler , and not very musical . 
'Music and dancing TO DAY ! said the Doctor , stopping short , and speaking to himself . 
'I thought they dreaded to day . 
But it's a world of contradictions . 
'Somebody's birth day , Puss ! replied the Doctor . 
'By the by , and he looked into the pretty face , still close to his , 'I suppose it's YOUR birth day . 
'No ! Do you really , father ? cried his pet daughter , pursing up her red lips to be kissed . 
'There ! Take my love with it , said the Doctor , imprinting his upon them 'and many happy returns of the the idea ! of the day . 
His system of belief had been , in the beginning , part and parcel of the battle ground on which he lived , as you shall presently understand . 
'Well ! But how did you get the music ? asked the Doctor . 
'Oh ! Alfred sent the music , did he ? returned the Doctor . 
He met it coming out of the town as he was entering early . 
'Ay , ay , said the Doctor , carelessly , 'he always takes your opinion . 
And so we danced to Alfred's music till we were out of breath . 
And we thought the music all the gayer for being sent by Alfred . 
Didn't we , dear Marion ? 'Oh , I don't know , Grace . 
How you tease me about Alfred . 
'Tease you by mentioning your lover ? said her sister . 
'I am sure I don't much care to have him mentioned , said the wilful beauty , stripping the petals from some flowers she held , and scattering them on the ground . 
There is not a truer heart than Alfred's in the world ! 'No no , said Marion , raising her eyebrows with a pleasant air of careless consideration , 'perhaps not . 
But I don't know that there's any great merit in that . 
I I don't want him to be so very true . 
The Doctor never dreamed of inquiring whether his children , or either of them , helped in any way to make the scheme a serious one . 
But then he was a Philosopher . 
, which sometimes trips up kind and generous men , and has the fatal property of turning gold to dross and every precious thing to poor account . 
'Britain ! cried the Doctor . 
'In the house , returned Britain . 
'Are you going to spread it out here , as you were told last night ? said the Doctor . 
Jeddler , till the women had done getting in the apples , could I ? said Britain , his voice rising with his reasoning , so that it was very loud at last . 
'Well , have they done now ? replied the Doctor , looking at his watch , and clapping his hands . 
'Come ! make haste ! where's Clemency ? 'Here am I , Mister , said a voice from one of the ladders , which a pair of clumsy feet descended briskly . 
Everything shall be ready for you in half a minute , Mister . 
With that she began to bustle about most vigorously presenting , as she did so , an appearance sufficiently peculiar to justify a word of introduction . 
She was about thirty years old , and had a sufficiently plump and cheerful face , though it was twisted up into an odd expression of tightness that made it comical . 
But , the extraordinary homeliness of her gait and manner , would have superseded any face in the world . 
, and wrestle as it were with her garments , until they fell into a symmetrical arrangement . 
'Here are them two lawyers a coming , Mister ! said Clemency , in a tone of no very great good will . 
'Ah ! cried the Doctor , advancing to the gate to meet them . 
'Good morning , good morning ! Grace , my dear ! Marion ! Here are Messrs . 
Where's Alfred ! 'He'll be back directly , father , no doubt , said Grace . 
'He had so much to do this morning in his preparations for departure , that he was up and out by daybreak . 
'Ladies ! said Mr. Snitchey , 'for Self and Craggs , who bowed , 'good morning ! Miss , to Marion , 'I kiss your hand . 
'Ha ha ha ! laughed the Doctor thoughtfully , with his hands in his pockets . 
'No , returned the Doctor . 
Nothing serious in life ! What do you call law ? 'A joke , replied the Doctor . 
'Did you ever go to law ? asked Mr. Snitchey , looking out of the blue bag . 
'Never , returned the Doctor . 
'If you ever do , said Mr. Snitchey , 'perhaps you'll alter that opinion . 
Craggs , who seemed to be represented by Snitchey , and to be conscious of little or no separate existence or personal individuality , offered a remark of his own in this place . 
'It's made a great deal too easy , said Mr. Craggs . 
'Law is ? asked the Doctor . 
'Yes , said Mr. Craggs , 'everything is . 
Everything appears to me to be made too easy , now a days . 
It's the vice of these times . 
, it ought to be made a very difficult joke to crack . 
It ought to be as hard a struggle , sir , as possible . 
But , it's being made far too easy . 
We are oiling the gates of life . 
They ought to be rusty . 
We shall have them beginning to turn , soon , with a smooth sound . 
Whereas they ought to grate upon their hinges , sir . 
'Happy returns , Alf ! said the Doctor , lightly . 
'A hundred happy returns of this auspicious day , Mr. Heathfield ! said Snitchey , bowing low . 
'Returns ! Craggs murmured in a deep voice , all alone . 
'Why , what a battery ! exclaimed Alfred , stopping short , 'and one two three all foreboders of no good , in the great sea before me . 
I am glad you are not the first I have met this morning I should have taken it for a bad omen . 
But , Grace was the first sweet , pleasant Grace so I defy you all ! 'If you please , Mister , I was the first you know , said Clemency Newcome . 
'She was walking out here , before sunrise , you remember . 
I was in the house . 
'That's true ! Clemency was the first , said Alfred . 
'So I defy you with Clemency . 
'Ha , ha , ha , for Self and Craggs , said Snitchey . 
Perhaps to change the subject , Dr . 
Jeddler made a hasty move towards the breakfast , and they all sat down at table . 
Grace presided but so discreetly stationed herself , as to cut off her sister and Alfred from the rest of the company . 
Snitchey and Craggs sat at opposite corners , with the blue bag between them for safety the Doctor took his usual position , opposite to Grace . 
Clemency hovered galvanically about the table , as waitress and the melancholy Britain , at another and a smaller board , acted as Grand Carver of a round of beef and a ham . 
'Meat ? said Britain , approaching Mr. Snitchey , with the carving knife and fork in his hands , and throwing the question at him like a missile . 
'Certainly , returned the lawyer . 
'Do YOU want any ? to Craggs . 
'Lean and well done , replied that gentleman . 
, he lingered as near the Firm as he decently could , watching with an austere eye their disposition of the viands , and but once relaxing the severe expression of his face . 
'While we are yet at breakfast , said Snitchey and Craggs , who seemed to have no present idea of leaving off . 
Although Alfred had not been breakfasting , and seemed to have quite enough business on his hands as it was , he respectfully answered 'If you please , sir . 
'If anything could be serious , the Doctor began , 'in such a 'Farce as this , sir , hinted Alfred . 
That's not to the purpose . 
'Ah ! yes , yes , Dr . 
Jeddler , said the young man . 
'It is to the purpose . 
Much to the purpose , as my heart bears witness this morning and as yours does too , I know , if you would let it speak . 
Come , come ! he added , rallying his spirits and the Doctor at once , 'there's a serious grain in this large foolish dust heap , Doctor . 
Let us allow to day , that there is One . 
'To day ! cried the Doctor . 
'Hear him ! Ha , ha , ha ! Of all days in the foolish year . 
Why , on this day , the great battle was fought on this ground . 
Yet not a hundred people in that battle knew for what they fought , or why not a hundred of the inconsiderate rejoicers in the victory , why they rejoiced . 
Not half a hundred people were the better for the gain or loss . 
Not half a dozen men agree to this hour on the cause or merits and nobody , in short , ever knew anything distinct about it , but the mourners of the slain . 
Serious , too ! said the Doctor , laughing . 
'Such a system ! 'But , all this seems to me , said Alfred , 'to be very serious . 
'Serious ! cried the Doctor . 
'If you allowed such things to be serious , you must go mad , or die , or climb up to the top of a mountain , and turn hermit . 
'Besides so long ago , said Alfred . 
'Long ago ! returned the Doctor . 
'Although the way out has been always made too easy , said his partner . 
'Heyday ! what's the matter there ? exclaimed the Doctor . 
'It's this evil inclined blue bag , said Clemency , 'always tripping up somebody ! 'With a purpose and intention in it , I was saying , resumed Snitchey , 'that commands respect . 
Life a farce , Dr . 
Jeddler ? With law in it ? The Doctor laughed , and looked at Alfred . 
'Granted , if you please , that war is foolish , said Snitchey . 
Here's a smiling country , pointing it out with his fork , 'once overrun by soldiers trespassers every man of 'em and laid waste by fire and sword . 
'I don't stand up for life in general , he added , rubbing his hands and chuckling , 'it's full of folly full of something worse . 
Professions of trust , and confidence , and unselfishness , and all that ! Bah , bah , bah ! We see what they're worth . 
But , you mustn't laugh at life you've got a game to play a very serious game indeed ! Everybody's playing against you , you know , and you're playing against them . 
Oh ! it's a very interesting thing . 
There are deep moves upon the board . 
You must only laugh , Dr . 
Jeddler , when you win and then not much . 
'Really , I'm afraid that wouldn't soften his opinions , Mr. Alfred , said Snitchey . 
'The combatants are very eager and very bitter in that same battle of Life . 
There's a great deal of cutting and slashing , and firing into people's heads from behind . 
There is terrible treading down , and trampling on . 
It is rather a bad business . 
Both the sisters listened keenly . 
, that we can't agree , and seldom meet . 
I was born upon this battle field . 
I began , as a boy , to have my thoughts directed to the real history of a battle field . 
The same contradictions prevail in everything . 
One must either laugh or cry at such stupendous inconsistencies and I prefer to laugh . 
Except his partner in attendance , Clemency Newcome who rousing him with one of those favourite joints , her elbows , inquired , in a reproachful whisper , what he laughed at . 
'Not you ! said Britain . 
'Who then ? 'Humanity , said Britain . 
'Do you know where you are ? Do you want to get warning ? 'I don't know anything , said Britain , with a leaden eye and an immovable visage . 
'I don't care for anything . 
I don't make out anything . 
And I don't want anything . 
Therefore , he looked upon the Firm as one of the proximate causes of his state of mind , and held them in abhorrence accordingly . 
'But , this is not our business , Alfred , said the Doctor . 
The first term of probation appointed by your poor father , being over , away you go now , your own master , to fulfil his second desire . 
And long before your three years' tour among the foreign schools of medicine is finished , you'll have forgotten us . 
Lord , you'll forget us easily in six months ! 'If I do But you know better why should I speak to you ! said Alfred , laughing . 
'I don't know anything of the sort , returned the Doctor . 
'What do you say , Marion ? Marion , trifling with her teacup , seemed to say but she didn't say it that he was welcome to forget , if he could . 
Grace pressed the blooming face against her cheek , and smiled . 
, and other drolleries of that sort , which are to be signed , sealed , and delivered . 
'Oh ! I beg your pardon . 
I should think not , chuckled Snitchey , casting his eyes over her extraordinary figure . 
'You CAN read ? 'A little , answered Clemency . 
'The marriage service , night and morning , eh ? observed the lawyer , jocosely . 
I only reads a thimble . 
'Read a thimble ! echoed Snitchey . 
'What are you talking about , young woman ? Clemency nodded . 
'Why , this is a lunatic ! a subject for the Lord High Chancellor ! said Snitchey , staring at her . 
'If possessed of any property , stipulated Craggs . 
'Oh , that's it , is it , Miss Grace ! said Snitchey . 
Ha , ha , ha ! I thought our friend was an idiot . 
She looks uncommonly like it , he muttered , with a supercilious glance . 
'And what does the thimble say , Mrs. Newcome ? 'I an't married , Mister , observed Clemency . 
Will that do ? said the lawyer . 
, she assumed and calmly maintained , an attitude apparently inconsistent with the human anatomy and the laws of gravity . 
'That's the thimble , is it , young woman ? said Mr. Snitchey , diverting himself at her expense . 
'And what does the thimble say ? 'It says , replied Clemency , reading slowly round as if it were a tower , 'For get and For give . 
Snitchey and Craggs laughed heartily . 
'So new ! said Snitchey . 
'So easy ! said Craggs . 
'Such a knowledge of human nature in it ! said Snitchey . 
'So applicable to the affairs of life ! said Craggs . 
'And the nutmeg grater ? inquired the head of the Firm . 
'The grater says , returned Clemency , 'Do as you wold be done by . 
'Do , or you'll be done brown , you mean , said Mr. Snitchey . 
'I don't understand , retorted Clemency , shaking her head vaguely . 
They are serious enough in that whimsical as your world is and lay the blame on us afterwards . 
I think , said Mr. Snitchey , 'that I speak for Self and Craggs ? 'Decidedly , said Craggs . 
square with anybody's system of philosophy and , in short , bewildering himself as much as ever his great namesake has done with theories and schools . 
In brief , the Doctor was discharged of his trust and all its responsibilities and Alfred , taking it on himself , was fairly started on the journey of life . 
'Britain ! said the Doctor . 
'Run to the gate , and watch for the coach . 
'Yes , sir , yes , returned the young man , hurriedly . 
She is doubly so , now . 
I will be faithful to my trust , believe me . 
'I do believe it , Grace . 
'And yet , Grace Sister , seems the natural word . 
'Use it ! she said quickly . 
'I am glad to hear it . 
'And yet , sister , then , said Alfred , 'Marion and I had better have your true and steadfast qualities serving us here , and making us both happier and better . 
I wouldn't carry them away , to sustain myself , if I could ! 'Coach upon the hill top ! exclaimed Britain . 
'Time flies , Alfred , said the Doctor . 
'I have been telling Grace , dear Marion , he said , 'that you are her charge my precious trust at parting . 
The younger sister had one hand in his the other rested on her sister's neck . 
She looked into that sister's eyes , so calm , serene , and cheerful , with a gaze in which affection , admiration , sorrow , wonder , almost veneration , were blended . 
She looked into that sister's face , as if it were the face of some bright angel . 
Calm , serene , and cheerful , the face looked back on her and on her lover . 
And still those honest eyes looked back , so calm , serene , and cheerful , on herself and on her lover . 
Shall we , dear ? 'Yes ! interposed the elder sister , eagerly , and with a radiant smile . 
'Yes ! Alfred , don't linger . 
Say good bye to Marion . 
And Heaven be with you ! He pressed the younger sister to his heart . 
Released from his embrace , she again clung to her sister and her eyes , with the same blended look , again sought those so calm , serene , and cheerful . 
'Farewell , my boy ! said the Doctor . 
'Over the bridge ! cried Britain . 
'Let it come ! said Alfred , wringing the Doctor's hand stoutly . 
The coach was at the gate . 
There was a bustle with the luggage . 
'He waves his hat to you , my love , said Grace . 
'Your chosen husband , darling . 
Look ! The younger sister raised her head , and , for a moment , turned it . 
Then , turning back again , and fully meeting , for the first time , those calm eyes , fell sobbing on her neck . 
God bless you ! But I cannot bear to see it , Grace ! It breaks my heart . 
There was a framed print of a great judge in it , every curl in whose dreadful wig had made a man's hair stand on end . 
Snitchey and Craggs had each , in private life as in professional existence , a partner of his own . 
You trust a great deal too much to your Snitcheys , I think , and I hope you may never find my words come true . 
In this office , nevertheless , Snitchey and Craggs made honey for their several hives . 
at the folly of mankind , who couldn't always be at peace with one another and go to law comfortably . 
Here , nearly three years' flight had thinned the one and swelled the other , since the breakfast in the orchard when they sat together in consultation at night . 
Snitchey and Craggs sat opposite each other at a neighbouring desk . 
Sometimes , they would stop , and shaking their heads in concert , look towards the abstracted client . 
'That's all , said Mr. Snitchey , turning up the last paper . 
'Really there's no other resource . 
'All lost , spent , wasted , pawned , borrowed , and sold , eh ? said the client , looking up . 
'All , returned Mr. Snitchey . 
'Nothing else to be done , you say ? 'Nothing at all . 
The client bit his nails , and pondered again . 
Mr. Snitchey coughed , as if to deprecate the being supposed to participate in any figurative illustration of a legal position . 
Mr. Craggs , as if to express that it was a partnership view of the subject , also coughed . 
'Ruined at thirty ! said the client . 
'Humph ! 'Not ruined , Mr. Warden , returned Snitchey . 
'Not so bad as that . 
You have done a good deal towards it , I must say , but you are not ruined . 
A little nursing 'A little Devil , said the client . 
Craggs , said Snitchey , 'will you oblige me with a pinch of snuff ? Thank you , sir . 
How long nursing ? 'How long nursing ? repeated Snitchey , dusting the snuff from his fingers , and making a slow calculation in his mind . 
'For your involved estate , sir ? In good hands ? S. and C. 's , say ? Six or seven years . 
'To starve for six or seven years ! said the client with a fretful laugh , and an impatient change of his position . 
'To starve for six or seven years , Mr. Warden , said Snitchey , 'would be very uncommon indeed . 
You might get another estate by showing yourself , the while . 
But , we don't think you could do it speaking for Self and Craggs and consequently don't advise it . 
'What DO you advise ? 'Nursing , I say , repeated Snitchey . 
'Some few years of nursing by Self and Craggs would bring it round . 
But to enable us to make terms , and hold terms , and you to keep terms , you must go away you must live abroad . 
As to starvation , we could ensure you some hundreds a year to starve upon , even in the beginning I dare say , Mr. Warden . 
'Hundreds , said the client . 
'And I have spent thousands ! 'That , retorted Mr. Snitchey , putting the papers slowly back into the cast iron box , 'there is no doubt about . 
No doubt about , he repeated to himself , as he thoughtfully pursued his occupation . 
Or , perhaps the client knew HIS man , and had elicited such encouragement as he had received , to render some purpose he was about to disclose the more defensible in appearance . 
Gradually raising his head , he sat looking at his immovable adviser with a smile , which presently broke into a laugh . 
'After all , he said , 'my iron headed friend Mr. Snitchey pointed out his partner . 
'Self and excuse me Craggs . 
'I beg Mr. Craggs's pardon , said the client . 
'After all , my iron headed friends , he leaned forward in his chair , and dropped his voice a little , 'you don't know half my ruin yet . 
Mr. Snitchey stopped and stared at him . 
'I am not only deep in debt , said the client , 'but I am deep in 'Not in love ! cried Snitchey . 
'Yes ! said the client , falling back in his chair , and surveying the Firm with his hands in his pockets . 
'And not with an heiress , sir ? said Snitchey . 
'Nor a rich lady ? 'Nor a rich lady that I know of except in beauty and merit . 
'A single lady , I trust ? said Mr. Snitchey , with great expression . 
'It's not one of Dr . 
Jeddler's daughters ? said Snitchey , suddenly squaring his elbows on his knees , and advancing his face at least a yard . 
'Yes ! returned the client . 
'Not his younger daughter ? said Snitchey . 
'Yes ! returned the client . 
My partner can corroborate me . 
'We know the fact , repeated Craggs . 
'Why , so do I perhaps , returned the client quietly . 
'Don't talk to me of cases . 
The general precedent is in a much larger volume than any of your law books . 
We didn't think so much of it , at the time when we knew he was going on well under the Doctor's hands and roof but it looks bad now , sir . 
Bad ? It looks very bad . 
Doctor Jeddler too our client , Mr. Craggs . 
Alfred Heathfield too a sort of client , Mr. Snitchey , said Craggs . 
Michael Warden too , a kind of client , said the careless visitor , 'and no bad one either having played the fool for ten or twelve years . 
However , Mr. Michael Warden has sown his wild oats now there's their crop , in that box and he means to repent and be wise . 
And in proof of it , Mr. Michael Warden means , if he can , to marry Marion , the Doctor's lovely daughter , and to carry her away with him . 
'Really , Mr. Craggs , Snitchey began . 
I am not going to carry the young lady off , without her own consent . 
There's nothing illegal in it . 
I never was Mr. Heathfield's bosom friend . 
I violate no confidence of his . 
I love where he loves , and I mean to win where he would win , if I can . 
'He can't , Mr. Craggs , said Snitchey , evidently anxious and discomfited . 
'He can't do it , sir . 
She dotes on Mr. Alfred . 
'Does she ? returned the client . 
Craggs , she dotes on him , sir , persisted Snitchey . 
'I didn't live six weeks , some few months ago , in the Doctor's house for nothing and I doubted that soon , observed the client . 
'She would have doted on him , if her sister could have brought it about but I watched them . 
Marion avoided his name , avoided the subject shrunk from the least allusion to it , with evident distress . 
'Why should she , Mr. Craggs , you know ? Why should she , sir ? inquired Snitchey . 
She was very young when she made the engagement if it may be called one , I am not even sure of that and has repented of it , perhaps . 
There was no gainsaying the last clause , certainly and Mr. Snitchey , glancing at him , thought so . 
There was something naturally graceful and pleasant in the very carelessness of his air . 
, he could be full of fire and purpose . 
'A dangerous sort of libertine , thought the shrewd lawyer , 'to seem to catch the spark he wants , from a young lady's eyes . 
'I don't ask you for any advice . 
You are right to keep quite aloof from all parties in such a matter , which is not one in which grave men like you could interfere , on any side . 
, it will be , for the moment , more chargeable than running away alone . 
But I shall soon make all that up in an altered life . 
'I think it will be better not to hear this , Mr. Craggs ? said Snitchey , looking at him across the client . 
'I think not , said Craggs . 
'Well ! You needn't hear it , replied their client . 
'I'll mention it , however . 
I don't mean to ask the Doctor's consent , because he wouldn't give it me . 
I hope to rescue his child , my Marion , from what I see I KNOW she dreads , and contemplates with misery that is , the return of this old lover . 
If anything in the world is true , it is true that she dreads his return . 
Nobody is injured so far . 
I am so harried and worried here just now , that I lead the life of a flying fish . 
, and in whom or in any man , my passion is not surpassed . 
Who is injured yet ? It is a fair case throughout . 
My right is as good as his , if she decide in my favour and I will try my right by her alone . 
You will like to know no more after this , and I will tell you no more . 
Now you know my purpose , and wants . 
When must I leave here ? 'In a week , said Snitchey . 
Craggs ? 'In something less , I should say , responded Craggs . 
'In a month , said the client , after attentively watching the two faces . 
Succeed or fail , on this day month I go . 
'It's too long a delay , said Snitchey 'much too long . 
But let it be so . 
I thought he'd have stipulated for three , he murmured to himself . 
'Are you going ? Good night , sir ! 'Good night ! returned the client , shaking hands with the Firm . 
'You'll live to see me making a good use of riches yet . 
Henceforth the star of my destiny is , Marion ! 'Take care of the stairs , sir , replied Snitchey 'for she don't shine there . 
Good night ! 'Good night ! So they both stood at the stair head with a pair of office candles , watching him down . 
When he had gone away , they stood looking at each other . 
'What do you think of all this , Mr. Craggs ? said Snitchey . 
Mr. Craggs shook his head . 
'It was our opinion , on the day when that release was executed , that there was something curious in the parting of that pair I recollect , said Snitchey . 
'It was , said Mr. Craggs . 
And yet I thought that pretty face was very true . 
, drawing on his gloves , and snuffing out one candle , 'that I had even seen her character becoming stronger and more resolved of late . 
Craggs was of the same opinion , returned Craggs . 
and I can't quite think that . 
We had better not interfere we can do nothing , Mr. Craggs , but keep quiet . 
'Our friend the Doctor makes light of such things , said Mr. Snitchey , shaking his head . 
'I hope he mayn't stand in need of his philosophy . 
Our friend Alfred talks of the battle of life , he shook his head again , 'I hope he mayn't be cut down early in the day . 
Have you got your hat , Mr. Craggs ? I am going to put the other candle out . 
My story passes to a quiet little study , where , on that same night , the sisters and the hale old Doctor sat by a cheerful fireside . 
Grace was working at her needle . 
Marion read aloud from a book before her . 
They were very beautiful to look upon . 
Two better faces for a fireside , never made a fireside bright and sacred . 
Those loving eyes , so calm , serene , and cheerful , as of old . 
O Home , our comforter and friend when others fall away , to part with whom , at any step between the cradle and the grave 'Marion , my love ! said Grace . 
To part with whom , at any step between the cradle and the grave , is always sorrowful . 
Let no ray of affection , welcome , gentleness , forbearance , cordiality , shine from thy white head . 
'I cannot , she replied , and closed the book . 
'The words seem all on fire ! The Doctor was amused at this and laughed as he patted her on the head . 
'What ! overcome by a story book ! said Doctor Jeddler . 
'Print and paper ! Well , well , it's all one . 
It's as rational to make a serious matter of print and paper as of anything else . 
But , dry your eyes , love , dry your eyes . 
What's the matter now ? 'It's only me , Mister , said Clemency , putting in her head at the door . 
'And what's the matter with YOU ? said the Doctor . 
Abrasions on the elbows are not generally understood , it is true , to range within that class of personal charms called beauty spots . 
'Nothing an't the matter with me , said Clemency , entering , 'but come a little closer , Mister . 
The Doctor , in some astonishment , complied with this invitation . 
'You said I wasn't to give you one before them , you know , said Clemency . 
'Britain was riding by on a errand , she chuckled , handing it to the Doctor , 'and see the mail come in , and waited for it . 
There's A. H. in the corner . 
Mr. Alfred's on his journey home , I bet . 
We shall have a wedding in the house there was two spoons in my saucer this morning . 
'Here ! Girls ! cried the Doctor . 
'I can't help it I never could keep a secret in my life . 
There are not many secrets , indeed , worth being kept in such a well ! never mind that . 
Alfred's coming home , my dears , directly . 
'What ! The story book is soon forgotten ! said the Doctor , pinching her cheek . 
'I thought the news would dry those tears . 
Let it be a surprise , he says , here . 
But I can't let it be a surprise . 
He must have a welcome . 
'Why , perhaps not what your impatience calls directly , returned the doctor 'but pretty soon too . 
To day is Thursday , is it not ? Then he promises to be here , this day month . 
'This day month ! repeated Marion , softly . 
'A gay day and a holiday for us , said the cheerful voice of her sister Grace , kissing her in congratulation . 
'Long looked forward to , dearest , and come at last . 
She answered with a smile a mournful smile , but full of sisterly affection . 
As she looked in her sister's face , and listened to the quiet music of her voice , picturing the happiness of this return , her own face glowed with hope and joy . 
And with a something else a something shining more and more through all the rest of its expression for which I have no name . 
It was not exultation , triumph , proud enthusiasm . 
They are not so calmly shown . 
It was not love and gratitude alone , though love and gratitude were part of it . 
You remember ? 'I remember , she answered , with her pleasant laugh , and plying her needle busily . 
'This day month , indeed ! mused the Doctor . 
'That hardly seems a twelve month ago . 
And where was my little Marion then ! 'Never far from her sister , said Marion , cheerily , 'however little . 
Grace was everything to me , even when she was a young child herself . 
'True , Puss , true , returned the Doctor . 
I never knew you positive or obstinate , Grace , my darling , even then , on any subject but one . 
'I am afraid I have changed sadly for the worse , since , laughed Grace , still busy at her work . 
'What was that one , father ? 'Alfred , of course , said the Doctor . 
, than being called a Duchess , if we could have made you one . 
'Indeed ? said Grace , placidly . 
'Why , don't you remember ? inquired the Doctor . 
'I think I remember something of it , she returned , 'but not much . 
And as she sat at work , she hummed the burden of an old song , which the Doctor liked . 
'Alfred will find a real wife soon , she said , breaking off 'and that will be a happy time indeed for all of us . 
My three years' trust is nearly at an end , Marion . 
It has been a very easy one . 
I shall tell Alfred , when I give you back to him , that you have loved him dearly all the time , and that he has never once needed my good services . 
It will be liberal enough , dear Marion like your own . 
With that , she resumed the work she had for a moment laid down , when her sister spoke so fervently and with it the old song the Doctor liked to hear . 
'Well , Clemmy , said Britain , 'how are you by this time , and what's the news ? Clemency told him the news , which he received very graciously . 
A gracious change had come over Benjamin from head to foot . 
He was much broader , much redder , much more cheerful , and much jollier in all respects . 
It seemed as if his face had been tied up in a knot before , and was now untwisted and smoothed out . 
'There'll be another job for Snitchey and Craggs , I suppose , he observed , puffing slowly at his pipe . 
'More witnessing for you and me , perhaps , Clemmy ! 'Lor ! replied his fair companion , with her favourite twist of her favourite joints . 
'I wish it was me , Britain ! 'Wish what was you ? 'A going to be married , said Clemency . 
Benjamin took his pipe out of his mouth and laughed heartily . 
'Yes ! you're a likely subject for that ! he said . 
'Poor Clem ! Clemency for her part laughed as heartily as he , and seemed as much amused by the idea . 
'Yes , she assented , 'I'm a likely subject for that an't I ? 'YOU'LL never be married , you know , said Mr. Britain , resuming his pipe . 
'Don't you think I ever shall though ? said Clemency , in perfect good faith . 
Mr. Britain shook his head . 
'Not a chance of it ! 'Only think ! said Clemency . 
'Well ! I suppose you mean to , Britain , one of these days don't you ? A question so abrupt , upon a subject so momentous , required consideration . 
'I wish her joy , whoever she may be ! cried Clemency . 
'Oh she'll have that , said Benjamin , 'safe enough . 
'Oh ! I'm greatly beholden to you , you know , Clem . 
'Lor , how nice that is to think of ! said Clemency . 
'Did you though ! cried the admiring Clemency . 
Clemency was about to offer a suggestion , but he stopped her by anticipating it . 
'Com bined , he added gravely , 'with a thimble . 
'Do as you wold , you know , and cetrer , eh ! observed Clemency , folding her arms comfortably in her delight at this avowal , and patting her elbows . 
'Such a short cut , an't it ? 'I'm not sure , said Mr. Britain , 'that it's what would be considered good philosophy . 
I've my doubts about that but it wears well , and saves a quantity of snarling , which the genuine article don't always . 
'See how you used to go on once , yourself , you know ! said Clemency . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Britain . 
'But the most extraordinary thing , Clemmy , is that I should live to be brought round , through you . 
That's the strange part of it . 
Through you ! Why , I suppose you haven't so much as half an idea in your head . 
Clemency , without taking the least offence , shook it , and laughed and hugged herself , and said , 'No , she didn't suppose she had . 
'I'm pretty sure of it , said Mr. Britain . 
'Oh ! I dare say you're right , said Clemency . 
'I don't pretend to none . 
Benjamin took his pipe from his lips , and laughed till the tears ran down his face . 
'What a natural you are , Clemmy ! he said , shaking his head , with an infinite relish of the joke , and wiping his eyes . 
Clemency , without the smallest inclination to dispute it , did the like , and laughed as heartily as he . 
'I can't help liking you , said Mr. Britain 'you're a regular good creature in your way , so shake hands , Clem . 
Whatever happens , I'll always take notice of you , and be a friend to you . 
'Will you ? returned Clemency . 
'Well ! that's very good of you . 
'Yes , yes , said Mr. Britain , giving her his pipe to knock the ashes out of it 'I'll stand by you . 
Hark ! That's a curious noise ! 'Noise ! repeated Clemency . 
Somebody dropping from the wall , it sounded like , said Britain . 
'Are they all abed up stairs ? 'Yes , all abed by this time , she replied . 
'Didn't you hear anything ? 'No . 
They both listened , but heard nothing . 
'I tell you what , said Benjamin , taking down a lantern . 
'I'll have a look round , before I go to bed myself , for satisfaction's sake . 
Undo the door while I light this , Clemmy . 
Clemency complied briskly but observed as she did so , that he would only have his walk for his pains , that it was all his fancy , and so forth . 
Mr. Britain said 'very likely but sallied out , nevertheless , armed with the poker , and casting the light of the lantern far and near in all directions . 
'You have always loved me , have you not ! 'Loved you , child ! You may be sure I have . 
And I may trust you , may I not ? There is no one else just now , in whom I CAN trust . 
'Yes , said Clemency , with all her heart . 
'There is some one out there , pointing to the door , 'whom I must see , and speak with , to night . 
'In another moment you may be discovered , said Marion . 
'Not now ! Wait , if you can , in some concealment . 
He waved his hand to her , and was gone . 
Wait here for me ! said Marion , hurriedly . 
'I have been seeking to speak to you for an hour past . 
Fancy , I suppose , said Mr. Britain , as he locked and barred the door . 
'One of the effects of having a lively imagination . 
'Matter ! she repeated , chafing her hands and elbows , nervously , and looking anywhere but at him . 
'That's good in you , Britain , that is ! After going and frightening one out of one's life with noises and lanterns , and I don't know what all . 
But you're as bold as brass in general , he said , stopping to observe her 'and were , after the noise and the lantern too . 
When all was quiet , Marion returned . 
'Open the door , she said 'and stand there close beside me , while I speak to him , outside . 
Timid as her manner was , it still evinced a resolute and settled purpose , such as Clemency could not resist . 
She softly unbarred the door but before turning the key , looked round on the young creature waiting to issue forth when she should open it . 
The face was not averted or cast down , but looking full upon her , in its pride of youth and beauty . 
'It's little that I know , my dear , cried Clemency , 'very little but I know that this should not be . 
Think of what you do ! 'I have thought of it many times , said Marion , gently . 
'Once more , urged Clemency . 
'For Mr. Alfred's sake , said Clemency , with homely earnestness . 
'Him that you used to love so dearly , once ! She hid her face , upon the instant , in her hands , repeating 'Once ! as if it rent her heart . 
'Let me go out , said Clemency , soothing her . 
'I'll tell him what you like . 
Don't cross the door step to night . 
I'm sure no good will come of it . 
Oh , it was an unhappy day when Mr. Warden was ever brought here ! Think of your good father , darling of your sister . 
'I have , said Marion , hastily raising her head . 
'You don't know what I do . 
I MUST speak to him . 
You are the best and truest friend in all the world for what you have said to me , but I must take this step . 
Into the dark and doubtful night that lay beyond the threshold , Marion passed quickly , holding by her hand . 
When they returned , he followed to the door , and pausing there a moment , seized the other hand , and pressed it to his lips . 
The door was barred and locked again , and once again she stood beneath her father's roof . 
Again she thanked and thanked her humble friend , and trusted to her , as she said , with confidence , implicitly . 
A month soon passes , even at its tardiest pace . 
The month appointed to elapse between that night and the return , was quick of foot , and went by , like a vapour . 
A raging winter day , that shook the old house , sometimes , as if it shivered in the blast . 
A day to make home doubly home . 
To give the chimney corner new delights . 
To shed a ruddier glow upon the faces gathered round the hearth , and draw each fireside group into a closer and more social league , against the roaring elements without . 
They knew that he could not arrive till night and they would make the night air ring , he said , as he approached . 
All his old friends should congregate about him . 
He should not miss a face that he had known and liked . 
It was a busy day for all of them a busier day for none of them than Grace , who noiselessly presided everywhere , and was the cheerful mind of all the preparations . 
, did Clemency glance anxiously , and almost fearfully , at Marion . 
She saw her paler , perhaps , than usual but there was a sweet composure on her face that made it lovelier than ever . 
'The next wreath I adjust on this fair head , will be a marriage wreath , said Grace 'or I am no true prophet , dear . 
Her sister smiled , and held her in her arms . 
Are you sure that I want nothing more ? Her care was not for that . 
It was her sister's face she thought of , and her eyes were fixed upon it , tenderly . 
'My art , said Grace , 'can go no farther , dear girl nor your beauty . 
I never saw you look so beautiful as now . 
'I never was so happy , she returned . 
'Ay , but there is a greater happiness in store . 
In such another home , as cheerful and as bright as this looks now , said Grace , 'Alfred and his young wife will soon be living . 
'It is a happy home , Grace , in your fancy . 
I can see it in your eyes . 
I know it WILL be happy , dear . 
How glad I am to know it . 
'Well , cried the Doctor , bustling in . 
He'll not find us with the ice unbroken . 
Pile up the fire here , Britain ! Let it shine upon the holly till it winks again . 
Say that you forgive her . 
That you will forgive her . 
That she shall always share your love , and , and the rest was not said , for her face was hidden on the old man's shoulder . 
'Tut , tut , tut , said the Doctor gently . 
Kiss me again , Puss . 
There ! Prospective and retrospective a clear score between us . 
More and more company came flocking in . 
Mr. and Mrs. Craggs came arm in arm , but Mrs. Snitchey came alone . 
'Why , what's become of HIM ? inquired the Doctor . 
The feather of a Bird of Paradise in Mrs. Snitchey's turban , trembled as if the Bird of Paradise were alive again , when she said that doubtless Mr. Craggs knew . 
'That nasty office , said Mrs. Craggs . 
'I wish it was burnt down , said Mrs. Snitchey . 
'He's he's there's a little matter of business that keeps my partner rather late , said Mr. Craggs , looking uneasily about him . 
Don't tell me ! said Mrs. Snitchey . 
'WE know what business means , said Mrs. Craggs . 
'I wonder YOU could come away , Mr. Craggs , said his wife . 
Craggs is fortunate , I'm sure ! said Mrs. Snitchey . 
'That office so engrosses 'em , said Mrs. Craggs . 
'A person with an office has no business to be married at all , said Mrs. Snitchey . 
Still , Mr. Craggs , without much heeding these remarks , looked uneasily about until his eye rested on Grace , to whom he immediately presented himself . 
'Good evening , ma'am , said Craggs . 
Your Miss your sister , Miss Marion , is she 'Oh , she's quite well , Mr. Craggs . 
'Yes I is she here ? asked Craggs . 
'Here ! Don't you see her yonder ? Going to dance ? said Grace . 
Now the music struck up , and the dance commenced . 
The bright fire crackled and sparkled , rose and fell , as though it joined the dance itself , in right good fellowship . 
Sometimes , it roared as if it would make music too . 
Sometimes , it flashed and beamed as if it were the eye of the old room it winked too , sometimes , like a knowing patriarch , upon the youthful whisperers in corners . 
Another dance was near its close , when Mr. Snitchey touched his partner , who was looking on , upon the arm . 
Mr. Craggs started , as if his familiar had been a spectre . 
'Is he gone ? he asked . 
'Hush ! He has been with me , said Snitchey , 'for three hours and more . 
He looked into all our arrangements for him , and was very particular indeed . 
He Humph ! The dance was finished . 
Marion passed close before him , as he spoke . 
'You see ! All safe and well , said Mr. Craggs . 
'He didn't recur to that subject , I suppose ? 'Not a word . 
'And is he really gone ? Is he safe away ? 'He keeps to his word . 
There's no such lonely road anywhere else . 
The tide flows , he says , an hour before midnight about this time . 
Mr. Snitchey wiped his forehead , which looked hot and anxious . 
'What do you think , said Mr. Craggs , 'about 'Hush ! replied his cautious partner , looking straight before him . 
Don't mention names , and don't let us , seem to be talking secrets . 
I don't know what to think and to tell you the truth , I don't care now . 
His self love deceived him , I suppose . 
Perhaps the young lady coquetted a little . 
The evidence would seem to point that way . 
Alfred not arrived ? 'Not yet , said Mr. Craggs . 
Mr. Snitchey wiped his forehead again . 
I haven't been so nervous since we've been in partnership . 
I intend to spend the evening now , Mr. Craggs . 
Mrs. Craggs and Mrs. Snitchey joined them as he announced this intention . 
The Bird of Paradise was in a state of extreme vibration , and the little bells were ringing quite audibly . 
'It has been the theme of general comment , Mr. Snitchey , said Mrs. Snitchey . 
'I hope the office is satisfied . 
'Satisfied with what , my dear ? asked Mr. Snitchey . 
'With the exposure of a defenceless woman to ridicule and remark , returned his wife . 
'That is quite in the way of the office , THAT is . 
There is something honest in that , at all events . 
'My dear , urged Mr. Craggs , 'your good opinion is invaluable , but I never avowed that the office was the enemy of your peace . 
'No , said Mrs. Craggs , ringing a perfect peal upon the little bells . 
You wouldn't be worthy of the office , if you had the candour to . 
To do her the favour to look at him ! 'At which man , my dear ? said Mr. Snitchey . 
'Your chosen companion I'M no companion to you , Mr. Snitchey . 
'Yes , yes , you are , my dear , he interposed . 
'No , no , I'm not , said Mrs. Snitchey with a majestic smile . 
, each lady graciously accepted , and took her place . 
Now , too , the fire took fresh courage , favoured by the lively wind the dance awakened , and burnt clear and high . 
It was the Genius of the room , and present everywhere . 
Hot and breathless as the Doctor was , it only made him the more impatient for Alfred's coming . 
'Anything been seen , Britain ? Anything been heard ? 'Too dark to see far , sir . 
Too much noise inside the house to hear . 
'That's right ! The gayer welcome for him . 
How goes the time ? 'Just twelve , sir . 
He can't be long , sir . 
'Stir up the fire , and throw another log upon it , said the Doctor . 
He knew the room from which it shone . 
He saw the wintry branches of the old trees between the light and him . 
He knew that one of those trees rustled musically in the summer time at the window of Marion's chamber . 
The tears were in his eyes . 
His heart throbbed so violently that he could hardly bear his happiness . 
Stop ! He knew the Doctor , and understood what he had done . 
He would not let it be a surprise to them . 
But he could make it one , yet , by going forward on foot . 
There was a frosty rime upon the trees , which , in the faint light of the clouded moon , hung upon the smaller branches like dead garlands . 
Withered leaves crackled and snapped beneath his feet , as he crept softly on towards the house . 
The desolation of a winter night sat brooding on the earth , and in the sky . 
But , the red light came cheerily towards him from the windows figures passed and repassed there and the hum and murmur of voices greeted his ear sweetly . 
It instantly recoiled with a half suppressed cry . 
'Clemency , he said , 'don't you know me ? 'Don't come in ! she answered , pushing him back . 
'What is the matter ? he exclaimed . 
I I am afraid to think . 
Hark ! There was a sudden tumult in the house . 
She put her hands upon her ears . 
A wild scream , such as no hands could shut out , was heard and Grace distraction in her looks and manner rushed out at the door . 
'Grace ! He caught her in his arms . 
'What is it ! Is she dead ! She disengaged herself , as if to recognise his face , and fell down at his feet . 
A crowd of figures came about them from the house . 
Among them was her father , with a paper in his hand . 
'Fled , my dear Alfred ! said the Doctor , in a broken voice , and with his hands before his face . 
'Gone from her home and us . 
To night ! She writes that she has made her innocent and blameless choice entreats that we will forgive her prays that we will not forget her and is gone . 
There was a hurried running to and fro , confusion , noise , disorder , and no purpose . 
Some approached him kindly , with the view of offering consolation some admonished him that Grace must be removed into the house , and that he prevented it . 
He never heard them , and he never moved . 
The snow fell fast and thick . 
He looked up for a moment in the air , and thought that those white ashes strewn upon his hopes and misery , were suited to them well . 
But he never felt the weather and he never stirred . 
CHAPTER III Part The Third THE world had grown six years older since that night of the return . 
It was a warm autumn afternoon , and there had been heavy rain . 
The horse trough , full of clear fresh water , and the ground below it sprinkled with droppings of fragrant hay , made every horse that passed , prick up his ears . 
The crimson curtains in the lower rooms , and the pure white hangings in the little bed chambers above , beckoned , Come in ! with every breath of air . 
The superabundant moisture , trickling from everything after the late rain , set him off well . 
Nothing near him was thirsty . 
This village Inn had assumed , on being established , an uncommon sign . 
It was called The Nutmeg Grater . 
And underneath that household word , was inscribed , up in the tree , on the same flaming board , and in the like golden characters , By Benjamin Britain . 
B. , said Mr. Britain , looking down the road , 'is rather late . 
As there was no Mrs. Britain coming , he strolled leisurely out into the road and looked up at the house , very much to his satisfaction . 
'It's just the sort of house , said Benjamin , 'I should wish to stop at , if I didn't keep it . 
Then , he strolled towards the garden paling , and took a look at the dahlias . 
They looked over at him , with a helpless drowsy hanging of their heads which bobbed again , as the heavy drops of wet dripped off them . 
'You must be looked after , said Benjamin . 
'Memorandum , not to forget to tell her so . 
'She hadn't much to do , I think , said Ben . 
'There were a few little matters of business after market , but not many . 
'You're late , Clemmy ! said Mr. Britain . 
Put the horse up , Harry , and if he coughs again give him a warm mash to night . 
Eight , nine , ten . 
Why , where's eleven ? Oh ! forgot , it's all right . 
How's the children , Ben ? 'Hearty , Clemmy , hearty . 
, and smoothing her hair with her open hands . 
'Give us a kiss , old man ! Mr. Britain promptly complied . 
'I think , said Mrs. Britain , applying herself to her pockets and drawing forth an immense bulk of thin books and crumpled papers a very kennel of dogs' ears 'I've done everything . 
'I thought he wouldn't , returned Ben . 
He says whatever family you was to have , Ben , he'd never put you to the cost of a halfpenny . 
Not if you was to have twenty . 
Mr. Britain's face assumed a serious expression , and he looked hard at the wall . 
'An't it kind of him ? said Clemency . 
'Very , returned Mr. Britain . 
'It's the sort of kindness that I wouldn't presume upon , on any account . 
Then there's the pony he fetched eight pound two and that an't bad , is it ? 'It's very good , said Ben . 
'I'm glad you're pleased ! exclaimed his wife . 
'I thought you would be and I think that's all , and so no more at present from yours and cetrer , C. Britain . 
Ha ha ha ! There ! Take all the papers , and lock 'em up . 
Oh ! Wait a minute . 
Here's a printed bill to stick on the wall . 
How nice it smells ! 'What's this ? said Ben , looking over the document . 
'I don't know , replied his wife . 
'I haven't read a word of it . 
To be sold by Auction , read the host of the Nutmeg Grater , unless previously disposed of by private contract . 
'They always put that , said Clemency . 
'Yes , but they don't always put this , he returned . 
'Look here , Mansion , c . 
, ring fence , c . 
Snitchey and Craggs , c . 
, ornamental portion of the unencumbered freehold property of Michael Warden , Esquire , intending to continue to reside abroad ! 'Intending to continue to reside abroad ! repeated Clemency . 
'Here it is , said Britain . 
'Dear , dear , dear ! There'll be heavy hearts , Ben , yonder . 
Mr. Britain heaved a sigh , and shook his head , and said he couldn't make it out he had left off trying long ago . 
With that remark , he applied himself to putting up the bill just inside the bar window . 
Clemency , after meditating in silence for a few moments , roused herself , cleared her thoughtful brow , and bustled off to look after the children . 
Though the host of the Nutmeg Grater had a lively regard for his good wife , it was of the old patronising kind , and she amused him mightily . 
everything in its place , and everything furbished and polished up to the very utmost . 
'That same Mr. Michael Warden , said Clemency , shaking her head at the notice of sale , 'lost me my old place . 
'And got you your husband , said Mr. Britain . 
'Well ! So he did , retorted Clemency , 'and many thanks to him . 
'Man's the creature of habit , said Mr. Britain , surveying her , over his saucer . 
'I had somehow got used to you , Clem and I found I shouldn't be able to get on without you . 
So we went and got made man and wife . 
Ha ! ha ! We ! Who'd have thought it ! 'Who indeed ! cried Clemency . 
'It was very good of you , Ben . 
'No , no , no , replied Mr. Britain , with an air of self denial . 
'Oh yes it was , Ben , said his wife , with great simplicity 'I'm sure I think so , and am very much obliged to you . 
How often he has sat in this room , and told me over and over again he was sorry for it ! the last time , only yesterday , when you were out . 
'I don't know , I'm sure , said Clemency , blowing her tea , to cool it . 
'Bless you , I couldn't tell you , if you was to offer me a reward of a hundred pound . 
He seemed attentive to their conversation , and not at all impatient to interrupt it . 
Clemency hastily rose at this sight . 
Mr. Britain also rose and saluted the guest . 
'Will you please to walk up stairs , sir ? There's a very nice room up stairs , sir . 
'Thank you , said the stranger , looking earnestly at Mr. Britain's wife . 
'May I come in here ? 'Oh , surely , if you like , sir , returned Clemency , admitting him . 
'What would you please to want , sir ? The bill had caught his eye , and he was reading it . 
'Excellent property that , sir , observed Mr. Britain . 
He made no answer but , turning round , when he had finished reading , looked at Clemency with the same observant curiosity as before . 
'You were asking me , he said , still looking at her , 'What you would please to take , sir , answered Clemency , stealing a glance at him in return . 
He sat down as he spoke , without any further parley , and looked out at the prospect . 
He was an easy , well knit figure of a man in the prime of life . 
His face , much browned by the sun , was shaded by a quantity of dark hair and he wore a moustache . 
'Between five and six years old , said Clemency speaking very distinctly . 
'I think I heard you mention Dr . 
Jeddler's name , as I came in , inquired the stranger . 
'That bill reminds me of him for I happen to know something of that story , by hearsay , and through certain connexions of mine . 
Is the old man living ? 'Yes , he's living , sir , said Clemency . 
'Much changed ? 'Since when , sir ? returned Clemency , with remarkable emphasis and expression . 
'Since his daughter went away . 
'Yes ! he's greatly changed since then , said Clemency . 
'He's grey and old , and hasn't the same way with him at all but , I think he's happy now . 
He has taken on with his sister since then , and goes to see her very often . 
That did him good , directly . 
He had forgiven her then . 
That was about the same time as Miss Grace's marriage . 
Britain , you remember ? Mr. Britain remembered very well . 
'The sister is married then , returned the stranger . 
He paused for some time before he asked , 'To whom ? Clemency narrowly escaped oversetting the tea board , in her emotion at this question . 
'Did YOU never hear ? she said . 
'I should like to hear , he replied , as he filled his glass again , and raised it to his lips . 
'It would be a long story , I am sure . 
'But told as a short one , suggested the stranger . 
No one better , added Clemency , wiping her eyes with her hand . 
'And so , suggested the stranger . 
'And so , said Clemency , taking him up mechanically , and without any change in her attitude or manner , 'they at last were married . 
They were married on her birth day it comes round again to morrow very quiet , very humble like , but very happy . 
Mr. Alfred said , one night when they were walking in the orchard , Grace , shall our wedding day be Marion's birth day ? And it was . 
'And they have lived happily together ? said the stranger . 
'No two people ever more so . 
They have had no sorrow but this . 
She raised her head as with a sudden attention to the circumstances under which she was recalling these events , and looked quickly at the stranger . 
'I've heard , she said , 'that Doctor Jeddler is thought to know more of it than he tells . 
Miss Grace has had letters from her sister , saying that she was well and happy , and made much happier by her being married to Mr. Alfred and has written letters back . 
But there's a mystery about her life and fortunes , altogether , which nothing has cleared up to this hour , and which She faltered here , and stopped . 
'And which' repeated the stranger . 
'Which only one other person , I believe , could explain , said Clemency , drawing her breath quickly . 
'Who may that be ? asked the stranger . 
'You remember me , sir ? said Clemency , trembling with emotion 'I saw just now you did ! You remember me , that night in the garden . 
I was with her ! 'Yes . 
You were , he said . 
'Yes , sir , returned Clemency . 
'Yes , to be sure . 
This is my husband , if you please . 
'What would you do ? 'Let them know that you are here , sir , answered Clemency , clapping her hands in sheer agitation . 
'Or perhaps , said Clemency , running past her husband , and catching in her emotion at Mr. Warden's cloak , 'perhaps she's here now perhaps she's close by . 
I think from your manner she is . 
Let me see her , sir , if you please . 
I waited on her when she was a little child . 
I saw her grow to be the pride of all this place . 
I knew her when she was Mr. Alfred's promised wife . 
I tried to warn her when you tempted her away . 
I know what her old home was when she was like the soul of it , and how it changed when she was gone and lost . 
Let me speak to her , if you please ! He gazed at her with compassion , not unmixed with wonder but , he made no gesture of assent . 
'I don't think she CAN know , pursued Clemency , 'how truly they forgive her how they love her what joy it would be to them , to see her once more . 
She may be timorous of going home . 
Perhaps if she sees me , it may give her new heart . 
Only tell me truly , Mr. Warden , is she with you ? 'She is not , he answered , shaking his head . 
This answer , and his manner , and his black dress , and his coming back so quietly , and his announced intention of continuing to live abroad , explained it all . 
He didn't contradict her yes , she was dead ! Clemency sat down , hid her face upon the table , and cried . 
'If you could have heard what has just passed how I have been besought and entreated to perform impossibilities what confusion and affliction I carry with me ! 'I can guess it all . 
But why did you ever come here , my good sir ? retorted Snitchey . 
I wanted to communicate with you , first , before appearing there . 
I wanted to know what people would say to me . 
I see by your manner that you can tell me . 
If it were not for your confounded caution , I should have been possessed of everything long ago . 
'Well , sir , and I repeat it , returned Mr. Snitchey , 'we were bound to silence too . 
We were bound to silence in our duty towards ourselves , and in our duty towards a variety of clients , you among them , who were as close as wax . 
It was not our place to make inquiries of you on such a delicate subject . 
I had my suspicions , sir but , it is not six months since I have known the truth , and been assured that you lost her . 
'By whom ? inquired his client . 
'By Doctor Jeddler himself , sir , who at last reposed that confidence in me voluntarily . 
He , and only he , has known the whole truth , years and years . 
'And you know it ? said his client . 
'I do , sir ! replied Snitchey 'and I have also reason to know that it will be broken to her sister to morrow evening . 
They have given her that promise . 
In the meantime , perhaps you'll give me the honour of your company at my house being unexpected at your own . 
It's a very good place to dine at , Mr. Warden your own property , by the bye . 
took a chop here sometimes , and had it very comfortably served . 
Mr. Craggs , sir , said Snitchey , shutting his eyes tight for an instant , and opening them again , 'was struck off the roll of life too soon . 
'Heaven forgive me for not condoling with you , returned Michael Warden , passing his hand across his forehead , 'but I'm like a man in a dream at present . 
I seem to want my wits . 
Mr. Craggs yes I am very sorry we have lost Mr. Craggs . 
But he looked at Clemency as he said it , and seemed to sympathise with Ben , consoling her . 
It's a great loss to me . 
He was my right arm , my right leg , my right ear , my right eye , was Mr. Craggs . 
I am paralytic without him . 
He bequeathed his share of the business to Mrs. Craggs , her executors , administrators , and assigns . 
His name remains in the Firm to this hour . 
I try , in a childish sort of a way , to make believe , sometimes , he's alive . 
You may observe that I speak for Self and Craggs deceased , sir deceased , said the tender hearted attorney , waving his pocket handkerchief . 
Michael Warden , who had still been observant of Clemency , turned to Mr. Snitchey when he ceased to speak , and whispered in his ear . 
'Ah , poor thing ! said Snitchey , shaking his head . 
She was always very faithful to Marion . 
She was always very fond of her . 
Pretty Marion ! Poor Marion ! Cheer up , Mistress you are married now , you know , Clemency . 
Clemency only sighed , and shook her head . 
'Well , well ! Wait till to morrow , said the lawyer , kindly . 
'To morrow can't bring back' the dead to life , Mister , said Clemency , sobbing . 
It can't do that , or it would bring back Mr. Craggs , deceased , returned the lawyer . 
'But it may bring some soothing circumstances it may bring some comfort . 
To morrow was a bright and peaceful day and nowhere were the autumn tints more beautifully seen , than from the quiet orchard of the Doctor's house . 
The snows of many winter nights had melted from that ground , the withered leaves of many summer times had rustled there , since she had fled . 
She would have been a stranger sight in her old home now , even than that home had been at first , without her . 
The spirit of the lost girl looked out of those eyes . 
Those eyes of Grace , her sister , sitting with her husband in the orchard , on their wedding day , and his and Marion's birth day . 
He lived to better purpose on the altered battle ground , perhaps , than if he had contended restlessly in more ambitious lists and he was happy with his wife , dear Grace . 
We count by changes and events within us . 
'Yet we have years to count by , too , since Marion was with us , returned Grace . 
Did she not ? She took a letter from her breast , and kissed it , and said 'Yes . 
The letter runs so , does it not , my dear ? 'Yes , Alfred . 
He looked towards the sun , then fast declining , and said that the appointed time was sunset . 
you would transfer to me when the new wound was healed , but to encourage and return it . 
And make me a proud , and happy man again , Grace . 
Did she say so ? 'She meant , to make myself so blest and honoured in your love , was his wife's answer , as he held her in his arms . 
'Hear me , my dear ! he said . 
Hear me so ! and as he spoke , he gently laid the head she had raised , again upon his shoulder . 
'I know why I have never heard this passage in the letter , until now . 
I know why no trace of it ever showed itself in any word or look of yours at that time . 
I know why Grace , although so true a friend to me , was hard to win to be my wife . 
'Alfred , said Grace , raising her head quickly at these words . 
'The sun is going down . 
You have not forgotten what I am to know before it sets . 
'You are to know the truth of Marion's history , my love , he answered . 
'All the truth , she said , imploringly . 
'Nothing veiled from me , any more . 
Was it not ? 'It was , he answered . 
'Before the sun went down on Marion's birth day . 
And you see it , Alfred ? It is sinking fast . 
He put his arm about her waist , and , looking steadily into her eyes , rejoined 'That truth is not reserved so long for me to tell , dear Grace . 
It is to come from other lips . 
'From other lips ! she faintly echoed . 
I know your constant heart , I know how brave you are , I know that to you a word of preparation is enough . 
You have said , truly , that the time is come . 
Tell me that you have present fortitude to bear a trial a surprise a shock and the messenger is waiting at the gate . 
'What messenger ? she said . 
'And what intelligence does he bring ? 'I am pledged , he answered her , preserving his steady look , 'to say no more . 
Do you think you understand me ? 'I am afraid to think , she said . 
There was that emotion in his face , despite its steady gaze , which frightened her . 
Again she hid her own face on his shoulder , trembling , and entreated him to pause a moment . 
'Courage , my wife ! When you have firmness to receive the messenger , the messenger is waiting at the gate . 
The sun is setting on Marion's birth day . 
Courage , courage , Grace ! She raised her head , and , looking at him , told him she was ready . 
He took the child with him . 
She called her back she bore the lost girl's name and pressed her to her bosom . 
The little creature , being released again , sped after him , and Grace was left alone . 
She knew not what she dreaded , or what hoped but remained there , motionless , looking at the porch by which they had disappeared . 
'When this was my dear home , Grace , as it will be now again 'Stay , my sweet love ! A moment ! O Marion , to hear you speak again . 
She could not bear the voice she loved so well , at first . 
'When this was my dear home , Grace , as it will be now again , I loved him from my soul . 
I loved him most devotedly . 
I would have died for him , though I was so young . 
I never slighted his affection in my secret breast for one brief instant . 
It was far beyond all price to me . 
I never loved him better , Grace , than when he left this very scene upon this very day . 
I never loved him better , dear one , than I did that night when I left here . 
Her sister , bending over her , could look into her face , and hold her fast . 
'But he had gained , unconsciously , said Marion , with a gentle smile , 'another heart , before I knew that I had one to give him . 
But , I knew something of its depths . 
I knew the struggle it had made . 
I knew its high , inestimable worth to him , and his appreciation of it , let him love me as he would . 
I knew the debt I owed it . 
I had its great example every day before me . 
What you had done for me , I knew that I could do , Grace , if I would , for you . 
I never laid my head down on my pillow , but I prayed with tears to do it . 
that there were victories gained every day , in struggling hearts , to which these fields of battle were nothing . 
I had tried to tell you of my resolution , but you would never hear me you would never understand me . 
The time was drawing near for his return . 
I felt that I must act , before the daily intercourse between us was renewed . 
I knew that one great pang , undergone at that time , would save a lengthened agony to all of us . 
'I have sometimes feared of late years , that this might have been , exclaimed her sister and her countenance was ashy pale . 
He wrote to me , after leaving here told me what his condition and prospects really were and offered me his hand . 
He told me he had seen I was not happy in the prospect of Alfred's return . 
But I wished that you should feel me wholly lost to Alfred hopeless to him dead . 
Do you understand me , love ? Her sister looked into her face , attentively . 
'I saw Mr. Warden , and confided in his honour charged him with my secret , on the eve of his and my departure . 
Do you understand me , dear ? Grace looked confusedly upon her . 
She scarcely seemed to hear . 
'My love , my sister ! said Marion , 'recall your thoughts a moment listen to me . 
Do not look so strangely on me . 
When women do so , they assume that name which is so dear to you and me , and call each other Sisters . 
And such a one am I ! You understand me now ? Still she looked fixedly upon her , and made no reply . 
My heart has known no other love , my hand has never been bestowed apart from it . 
I am still your maiden sister , unmarried , unbetrothed your own loving old Marion , in whose affection you exist alone and have no partner , Grace ! She understood her now . 
Her face relaxed sobs came to her relief and falling on her neck , she wept and wept , and fondled her as if she were a child again . 
When they were more composed , they found that the Doctor , and his sister good Aunt Martha , were standing near at hand , with Alfred . 
'That's something , to be sure , retorted Aunt Martha , 'in such a farce as 'No , pray don't , said the doctor penitently . 
'Well , I won't , replied Aunt Martha . 
'But , I consider myself ill used . 
I don't know what's to become of me without my Marion , after we have lived together half a dozen years . 
'You must come and live here , I suppose , replied the Doctor . 
'We shan't quarrel now , Martha . 
'Or you must get married , Aunt , said Alfred . 
But as I knew him when he was a boy , and I was not a very young woman then , perhaps he mightn't respond . 
What do YOU say , Brother ? 'I've a great mind to say it's a ridiculous world altogether , and there's nothing serious in it , observed the poor old Doctor . 
'You might take twenty affidavits of it if you chose , Anthony , said his sister 'but nobody would believe you with such eyes as those . 
'If Mr. Craggs had been alive , my dear Miss Marion , said Mr. Snitchey , 'he would have had great interest in this occasion . 
He was always open to conviction . 
If he were open to conviction , now , I this is weakness . 
Mrs. Snitchey , my dear , at his summons that lady appeared from behind the door , 'you are among old friends . 
Mrs. Snitchey having delivered her congratulations , took her husband aside . 
'One moment , Mr. Snitchey , said that lady . 
'It is not in my nature to rake up the ashes of the departed . 
'No , my dear , returned her husband . 
Craggs is 'Yes , my dear , he is deceased , said Snitchey . 
'But I ask you if you recollect , pursued his wife , 'that evening of the ball ? I only ask you that . 
Snitchey , returned her husband , in her ear , 'Madam . 
Did you ever observe anything in MY eye ? 'No , said Mrs. Snitchey , sharply . 
And so the less you say about such things the better , Mrs. Snitchey and take this as a warning to have wiser and more charitable eyes another time . 
Miss Marion , I brought a friend of yours along with me . 
which the general happiness rendered more remarkable . 
None but the quick eyes of Aunt Martha , however , remarked him at all but , almost as soon as she espied him , she was in conversation with him . 
Britain , said the lawyer , putting his hand in his pocket , and bringing out a legal looking document , while this was going on , 'I congratulate you . 
Your wife lost one house , through my client Mr. Michael Warden and now gains another . 
I shall have the pleasure of canvassing you for the county , one of these fine mornings . 
'Would it make any difference in the vote if the sign was altered , sir ? asked Britain . 
'Not in the least , replied the lawyer . 
'And let me , said a voice behind them it was the stranger's Michael Warden's 'let me claim the benefit of those inscriptions . 
Jeddler , I might have deeply wronged you both . 
That I did not , is no virtue of my own . 
I will not say that I am six years wiser than I was , or better . 
But I have known , at any rate , that term of self reproach . 
I can urge no reason why you should deal gently with me . 
In a few days I shall quit this place for ever . 
But , as I have observed that Time confuses facts occasionally , I hardly know what weight to give to his authority . 
