Black Beauty by Anna Sewell English Quaker . 
Note Black Beauty' was originally published in . 
This etext was transcribed from an American edition of . 
Some small corrections were made , after being confirmed against other sources . 
Some shady trees leaned over it , and rushes and water lilies grew at the deep end . 
While I was young I lived upon my mother's milk , as I could not eat grass . 
In the daytime I ran by her side , and at night I lay down close by her . 
When it was hot we used to stand by the pond in the shade of the trees , and when it was cold we had a nice warm shed near the grove . 
As soon as I was old enough to eat grass my mother used to go out to work in the daytime , and come back in the evening . 
There were six young colts in the meadow besides me they were older than I was some were nearly as large as grown up horses . 
I used to run with them , and had great fun we used to gallop all together round and round the field as hard as we could go . 
Sometimes we had rather rough play , for they would frequently bite and kick as well as gallop . 
The colts who live here are very good colts , but they are cart horse colts , and of course they have not learned manners . 
I have never forgotten my mother's advice I knew she was a wise old horse , and our master thought a great deal of her . 
Her name was Duchess , but he often called her Pet . 
Our master was a good , kind man . 
He gave us good food , good lodging , and kind words he spoke as kindly to us as he did to his little children . 
We were all fond of him , and my mother loved him very much . 
When she saw him at the gate she would neigh with joy , and trot up to him . 
All the horses would come to him , but I think we were his favorites . 
My mother always took him to the town on a market day in a light gig . 
There was a plowboy , Dick , who sometimes came into our field to pluck blackberries from the hedge . 
When he had eaten all he wanted he would have what he called fun with the colts , throwing stones and sticks at them to make them gallop . 
We did not much mind him , for we could gallop off but sometimes a stone would hit and hurt us . 
As soon as we saw the master we trotted up nearer to see what went on . 
Bad boy ! he said , bad boy ! to chase the colts . 
This is not the first time , nor the second , but it shall be the last . 
There take your money and go home I shall not want you on my farm again . 
So we never saw Dick any more . 
Old Daniel , the man who looked after the horses , was just as gentle as our master , so we were well off . 
The Hunt Before I was two years old a circumstance happened which I have never forgotten . 
It was early in the spring there had been a little frost in the night , and a light mist still hung over the woods and meadows . 
I and the other colts were feeding at the lower part of the field when we heard , quite in the distance , what sounded like the cry of dogs . 
My mother and an old riding horse of our master's were also standing near , and seemed to know all about it . 
They have found a hare , said my mother , and if they come this way we shall see the hunt . 
And soon the dogs were all tearing down the field of young wheat next to ours . 
I never heard such a noise as they made . 
After them came a number of men on horseback , some of them in green coats , all galloping as fast as they could . 
They have lost the scent , said the old horse perhaps the hare will get off . 
What hare ? I said . 
Now we shall see the hare , said my mother and just then a hare wild with fright rushed by and made for the woods . 
On came the dogs they burst over the bank , leaped the stream , and came dashing across the field followed by the huntsmen . 
Six or eight men leaped their horses clean over , close upon the dogs . 
One of the huntsmen rode up and whipped off the dogs , who would soon have torn her to pieces . 
He held her up by the leg torn and bleeding , and all the gentlemen seemed well pleased . 
One of the riders was getting out of the water covered with mud , the other lay quite still . 
His neck is broke , said my mother . 
And serve him right , too , said one of the colts . 
I thought the same , but my mother did not join with us . 
While my mother was saying this we stood and looked on . 
Many of the riders had gone to the young man but my master , who had been watching what was going on , was the first to raise him . 
His head fell back and his arms hung down , and every one looked very serious . 
There was no noise now even the dogs were quiet , and seemed to know that something was wrong . 
They carried him to our master's house . 
I heard afterward that it was young George Gordon , the squire's only son , a fine , tall young man , and the pride of his family . 
There was now riding off in all directions to the doctor's , to the farrier's , and no doubt to Squire Gordon's , to let him know about his son . 
She never would go to that part of the field afterward . 
They were carrying young Gordon to the churchyard to bury him . 
He would never ride again . 
What they did with Rob Roy I never knew but 'twas all for one little hare . 
My Breaking In I was now beginning to grow handsome my coat had grown fine and soft , and was bright black . 
I had one white foot and a pretty white star on my forehead . 
When I was four years old Squire Gordon came to look at me . 
He examined my eyes , my mouth , and my legs he felt them all down and then I had to walk and trot and gallop before him . 
He seemed to like me , and said , When he has been well broken in he will do very well . 
Every one may not know what breaking in is , therefore I will describe it . 
So you see this breaking in is a great thing . 
At length , one morning , my master got on my back and rode me round the meadow on the soft grass . 
The next unpleasant business was putting on the iron shoes that too was very hard at first . 
My master went with me to the smith's forge , to see that I was not hurt or got any fright . 
The blacksmith took my feet in his hand , one after the other , and cut away some of the hoof . 
It did not pain me , so I stood still on three legs till he had done them all . 
My feet felt very stiff and heavy , but in time I got used to it . 
And now having got so far , my master went on to break me to harness there were more new things to wear . 
I hated the crupper to have my long tail doubled up and poked through that strap was almost as bad as the bit . 
I must not forget to mention one part of my training , which I have always considered a very great advantage . 
My master sent me for a fortnight to a neighboring farmer's , who had a meadow which was skirted on one side by the railway . 
Here were some sheep and cows , and I was turned in among them . 
I shall never forget the first train that ran by . 
I turned and galloped to the further side of the meadow as fast as I could go , and there I stood snorting with astonishment and fear . 
I thought it very dreadful , but the cows went on eating very quietly , and hardly raised their heads as the black frightful thing came puffing and grinding past . 
Now if any one wants to break in a young horse well , that is the way . 
My master often drove me in double harness with my mother , because she was steady and could teach me how to go better than a strange horse . 
Birtwick Park At this time I used to stand in the stable and my coat was brushed every day till it shone like a rook's wing . 
It was early in May , when there came a man from Squire Gordon's , who took me away to the hall . 
My master said , Good by , Darkie be a good horse , and always do your best . 
I could not say good by , so I put my nose into his hand he patted me kindly , and I left my first home . 
As I lived some years with Squire Gordon , I may as well tell something about the place . 
Squire Gordon's park skirted the village of Birtwick . 
Beyond this lay the home paddock , the old orchard , and the stables . 
It is a great thing to have a loose box . 
Into this fine box the groom put me it was clean , sweet , and airy . 
He gave me some very nice oats , he patted me , spoke kindly , and then went away . 
When I had eaten my corn I looked round . 
In the stall next to mine stood a little fat gray pony , with a thick mane and tail , a very pretty head , and a pert little nose . 
I am very handsome I carry the young ladies on my back , and sometimes I take our mistress out in the low chair . 
They think a great deal of me , and so does James . 
Are you going to live next door to me in the box ? I said , Yes . 
Well , then , he said , I hope you are good tempered I do not like any one next door who bites . 
Just then a horse's head looked over from the stall beyond the ears were laid back , and the eye looked rather ill tempered . 
This was a tall chestnut mare , with a long handsome neck . 
I never had words yet with horse or mare , and it is my wish to live at peace . 
Well , she said , we shall see . 
Of course , I do not want to have words with a young thing like you . 
In the afternoon , when she went out , Merrylegs told me all about it . 
The thing is this , said Merrylegs . 
Ginger has a bad habit of biting and snapping that is why they call her Ginger , and when she was in the loose box she used to snap very much . 
I hope they will now come again , if you do not bite or snap . 
I told him I never bit anything but grass , hay , and corn , and could not think what pleasure Ginger found it . 
A Fair Start The name of the coachman was John Manly he had a wife and one little child , and they lived in the coachman's cottage , very near the stables . 
John , he said , I meant to have tried the new horse this morning , but I have other business . 
You may as well take him around after breakfast go by the common and the Highwood , and back by the watermill and the river that will show his paces . 
I will , sir , said John . 
After breakfast he came and fitted me with a bridle . 
Ho , ho ! my boy , he said , as he pulled me up , you would like to follow the hounds , I think . 
As we came back through the park we met the Squire and Mrs. Gordon walking they stopped , and John jumped off . 
They were shooting rabbits near the Highwood , and a gun went off close by he pulled up a little and looked , but did not stir a step to right or left . 
I just held the rein steady and did not hurry him , and it's my opinion he has not been frightened or ill used while he was young . 
That's well , said the squire , I will try him myself to morrow . 
The next day I was brought up for my master . 
I remembered my mother's counsel and my good old master's , and I tried to do exactly what he wanted me to do . 
I found he was a very good rider , and thoughtful for his horse too . 
When he came home the lady was at the hall door as he rode up . 
Well , my dear , she said , how do you like him ? He is exactly what John said , he replied a pleasanter creature I never wish to mount . 
What shall we call him ? Would you like Ebony ? said she he is as black as ebony . 
Will you call him Blackbird , like your uncle's old horse ? No , he is far handsomer than old Blackbird ever was . 
If you like it shall be his name and so it was . 
It seems that horses have no relations at least they never know each other after they are sold . 
James Howard , the stable boy , was just as gentle and pleasant in his way , so I thought myself well off . 
There was another man who helped in the yard , but he had very little to do with Ginger and me . 
A few days after this I had to go out with Ginger in the carriage . 
I wondered how we should get on together but except laying her ears back when I was led up to her , she behaved very well . 
She did her work honestly , and did her full share , and I never wish to have a better partner in double harness . 
When we came to a hill , instead of slackening her pace , she would throw her weight right into the collar , and pull away straight up . 
After we had been out two or three times together we grew quite friendly and sociable , which made me feel very much at home . 
Our master had two other horses that stood in another stable . 
Straps here and straps there , a bit in my mouth , and blinkers over my eyes . 
Now , I am not complaining , for I know it must be so . 
Steady , steady , my boy , he would say wait a bit , and we will have a good swing , and soon get the tickle out of your feet . 
Still , he had his own ways of making me understand by the tone of his voice or the touch of the rein . 
I ought to say that sometimes we had our liberty for a few hours this used to be on fine Sundays in the summer time . 
The carriage never went out on Sundays , because the church was not far off . 
Then it was a very good time for talking , as we stood together under the shade of the large chestnut tree . 
Well , said she , if I had had your bringing up I might have had as good a temper as you , but now I don't believe I ever shall . 
Why not ? I said . 
Because it has been all so different with me , she replied . 
There was no kind master like yours to look after me , and talk to me , and bring me nice things to eat . 
The man that had the care of us never gave me a kind word in my life . 
A footpath ran through our field , and very often the great boys passing through would fling stones to make us gallop . 
I was never hit , but one fine young colt was badly cut in the face , and I should think it would be a scar for life . 
We did not care for them , but of course it made us more wild , and we settled it in our minds that boys were our enemies . 
We had very good fun in the free meadows , galloping up and down and chasing each other round and round the field then standing still under the shade of the trees . 
They did not give me a chance to know what they wanted . 
You know yourself it's bad enough when you have a kind master and plenty of coaxing , but there was nothing of that sort for me . 
His son was a strong , tall , bold man they called him Samson , and he used to boast that he had never found a horse that could throw him . 
Horseflesh' ! Yes , that is all that he thought about , and Ginger stamped her foot as if the very thought of him made her angry . 
I think he drank a good deal , and I am quite sure that the oftener he drank the worse it was for me . 
One day he had worked me hard in every way he could , and when I lay down I was tired , and miserable , and angry it all seemed so hard . 
The next morning he came for me early , and ran me round again for a long time . 
I had scarcely had an hour's rest , when he came again for me with a saddle and bridle and a new kind of bit . 
The new bit was very painful , and I reared up suddenly , which angered him still more , and he began to flog me . 
At last after a terrible struggle I threw him off backward . 
I stood under an oak tree and watched , but no one came to catch me . 
The time went on , and the sun was very hot the flies swarmed round me and settled on my bleeding flanks where the spurs had dug in . 
I felt hungry , for I had not eaten since the early morning , but there was not enough grass in that meadow for a goose to live on . 
I wanted to lie down and rest , but with the saddle strapped tightly on there was no comfort , and there was not a drop of water to drink . 
The afternoon wore on , and the sun got low . 
I saw the other colts led in , and I knew they were having a good feed . 
At last , just as the sun went down , I saw the old master come out with a sieve in his hand . 
He was a very fine old gentleman with quite white hair , but his voice was what I should know him by among a thousand . 
I stood still and let him come up he held the oats to me , and I began to eat without fear his voice took all my fear away . 
He stood by , patting and stroking me while I was eating , and seeing the clots of blood on my side he seemed very vexed . 
Poor lassie ! it was a bad business , a bad business then he quietly took the rein and led me to the stable just at the door stood Samson . 
I laid my ears back and snapped at him . 
Stand back , said the master , and keep out of her way you've done a bad day's work for this filly . 
He growled out something about a vicious brute . 
Hark ye , said the father , a bad tempered man will never make a good tempered horse . 
You've not learned your trade yet , Samson . 
Whoa ! my pretty one , he said , stand still , stand still . 
His very voice did me good , and the bathing was very comfortable . 
The skin was so broken at the corners of my mouth that I could not eat the hay , the stalks hurt me . 
He looked closely at it , shook his head , and told the man to fetch a good bran mash and put some meal into it . 
How good that mash was ! and so soft and healing to my mouth . 
He stood by all the time I was eating , stroking me and talking to the man . 
If a high mettled creature like this , said he , can't be broken by fair means , she will never be good for anything . 
Ginger's Story Continued The next time that Ginger and I were together in the paddock she told me about her first place . 
After my breaking in , she said , I was bought by a dealer to match another chestnut horse . 
For some weeks he drove us together , and then we were sold to a fashionable gentleman , and were sent up to London . 
We were often driven about in the park and other fashionable places . 
You who never had a check rein on don't know what it is , but I can tell you it is dreadful . 
It was enough to drive one mad . 
Did not your master take any thought for you ? I said . 
If he had been civil I would have tried to bear it . 
I was willing to work , and ready to work hard too but to be tormented for nothing but their fancies angered me . 
I soon broke a lot of harness , and kicked myself clear so that was an end of that place . 
After this I was sent to Tattersall's to be sold of course I could not be warranted free from vice , so nothing was said about that . 
After that he never dared to come into my stall again either my heels or my teeth were ready for him , and he knew it . 
I was quite quiet with my master , but of course he listened to what the man said , and so I was sold again . 
The same dealer heard of me , and said he thought he knew one place where I should do well . 
Well , I said , I think it would be a real shame if you were to bite or kick John or James . 
I don't mean to , she said , while they are good to me . 
Well , my pretty one , well , how do things go with you now ? You are a good bit happier than when you came to us , I think . 
She put her nose up to him in a friendly , trustful way , while he rubbed it gently . 
We shall make a cure of her , John , he said . 
Yes , sir , she's wonderfully improved she's not the same creature that she was it's the Birtwick balls' , sir , said John , laughing . 
Merrylegs Mr. Blomefield , the vicar , had a large family of boys and girls sometimes they used to come and play with Miss Jessie and Flora . 
One of the girls was as old as Miss Jessie two of the boys were older , and there were several little ones . 
What have you been doing , Merrylegs ? I asked . 
The other children had ridden me about for nearly two hours , and then the boys thought it was their turn , and so it was , and I was quite agreeable . 
They rode me by turns , and I galloped them about , up and down the fields and all about the orchard , for a good hour . 
He mounted me again , and I did the same . 
They are not bad boys they don't wish to be cruel . 
I like them very well but you see I had to give them a lesson . 
When they brought me to James and told him I think he was very angry to see such big sticks . 
He said they were only fit for drovers or gypsies , and not for young gentlemen . 
If I had been you , said Ginger , I would have given those boys a good kick , and that would have given them a lesson . 
No doubt you would , said Merrylegs but then I am not quite such a fool as to anger our master or make James ashamed of me . 
Besides , those children are under my charge when they are riding I tell you they are intrusted to me . 
A Talk in the Orchard Ginger and I were not of the regular tall carriage horse breed , we had more of the racing blood in us . 
It was so cheerful to be trotting and cantering all together that it always put us in high spirits . 
My mouth has never been spoiled , and I believe that was why the mistress preferred me to Ginger , although her paces were certainly quite as good . 
How dreadful ! I exclaimed . 
I tell you it is a lifelong wrong , and a lifelong loss but thank heaven , they don't do it now . 
What did they do it for then ? said Ginger . 
I suppose it is fashion that makes them strap our heads up with those horrid bits that I was tortured with in London , said Ginger . 
Of course it is , said he to my mind , fashion is one of the wickedest things in the world . 
I had a dear friend once , a brown terrier Skye' they called her . 
How their mother licked them , and how troubled she was , poor thing ! I never forgot it . 
Of course Ginger was very much excited she flung up her head with flashing eyes and distended nostrils , declaring that men were both brutes and blockheads . 
Who talks about blockheads ? said Merrylegs , who just came up from the old apple tree , where he had been rubbing himself against the low branch . 
Who talks about blockheads ? I believe that is a bad word . 
Bad words were made for bad things , said Ginger , and she told him what Sir Oliver had said . 
It is all true , said Merrylegs sadly , and I've seen that about the dogs over and over again where I lived first but we won't talk about it here . 
They are supposed , said Justice , the roan cob , in his calm way , to prevent horses from shying and starting , and getting so frightened as to cause accidents . 
As it was , he was very much hurt , the carriage was broken , and how John escaped nobody knew . 
Merrylegs could not be resisted , so we broke off our long conversation , and got up our spirits by munching some very sweet apples which lay scattered on the grass . 
Plain Speaking The longer I lived at Birtwick the more proud and happy I felt at having such a place . 
If any of the village children were known to treat any creature cruelly they soon heard about it from the Hall . 
I don't think any man could withstand our mistress . 
I wish all ladies were like her . 
Our master , too , used to come down very heavy sometimes . 
Recovering itself it was going on , when he began to lash it furiously . 
The pony plunged forward , but the strong , heavy hand held the pretty creature back with force almost enough to break its jaw , while the whip still cut into him . 
He spoke as if he was in a strong passion . 
He was a builder who had often been to the park on business . 
Master rode me home slowly , and I could tell by his voice how the thing had grieved him . 
The master backed me a little , so as to get a good view of them . 
So do I , said master , as well as any man , but I don't like to see them held up that takes all the shine out of it . 
I believe you are right in theory , said the other , and that's rather a hard hit about the soldiers but well I'll think about it , and so they parted . 
A Stormy Day One day late in the autumn my master had a long journey to go on business . 
I was put into the dog cart , and John went with his master . 
I always liked to go in the dog cart , it was so light and the high wheels ran along so pleasantly . 
There had been a great deal of rain , and now the wind was very high and blew the dry leaves across the road in a shower . 
We went along merrily till we came to the toll bar and the low wooden bridge . 
The man at the gate said the river was rising fast , and he feared it would be a bad night . 
I wish we were well out of this wood , said my master . 
Yes , sir , said John , it would be rather awkward if one of these branches came down upon us . 
I will never say I was not frightened , for I was . 
I stopped still , and I believe I trembled of course I did not turn round or run away I was not brought up to that . 
John jumped out and was in a moment at my head . 
That was a very near touch , said my master . 
We were going along at a good pace , but the moment my feet touched the first part of the bridge I felt sure there was something wrong . 
I dare not go forward , and I made a dead stop . 
There's something wrong , sir , said John , and he sprang out of the dog cart and came to my head and looked all about . 
He tried to lead me forward . 
Come on , Beauty , what's the matter ? Of course I could not tell him , but I knew very well that the bridge was not safe . 
Just then the man at the toll gate on the other side ran out of the house , tossing a torch about like one mad . 
Hoy , hoy , hoy ! halloo ! stop ! he cried . 
What's the matter ? shouted my master . 
The bridge is broken in the middle , and part of it is carried away if you come on you'll be into the river . 
Thank God ! said my master . 
You Beauty ! said John , and took the bridle and gently turned me round to the right hand road by the river side . 
The sun had set some time the wind seemed to have lulled off after that furious blast which tore up the tree . 
It grew darker and darker , stiller and stiller . 
I trotted quietly along , the wheels hardly making a sound on the soft road . 
For a good while neither master nor John spoke , and then master began in a serious voice . 
I am sure he makes friends of them if ever a man did . 
At last we came to the park gates and found the gardener looking out for us . 
I heard no more , as they went into the house , and John took me to the stable . 
He whipped him again , but the pony turned off on the other side . 
John laughed out quite loud . 
Served him right , he said . 
Oh , oh , oh ! cried the boy as he struggled about among the thorns I say , come and help me out . 
So we turned off to the right , and soon came up to the stack yard , and within sight of the house . 
The farmer was hurrying out into the road , and his wife was standing at the gate , looking very frightened . 
I should think , sir , said John , he had better be without a rider , unless he can be ridden properly . 
What do you mean ? said the farmer . 
The pony behaved well , sir , and showed no vice but at last he just threw up his heels and tipped the young gentleman into the thorn hedge . 
He wanted me to help him out , but I hope you will excuse me , sir , I did not feel inclined to do so . 
There's no bones broken , sir he'll only get a few scratches . 
During this time the mother began to cry , Oh , my poor Bill , I must go and meet him he must be hurt . 
I am much obliged to you , Manly . 
So we went on , John chuckling all the way home then he told James about it , who laughed and said , Serve him right . 
I knew that boy at school he took great airs on himself because he was a farmer's son he used to swagger about and bully the little boys . 
Of course , we elder ones would not have any of that nonsense , and let him know that in the school and the playground farmers' sons and laborers' sons were all alike . 
I well remember one day , just before afternoon school , I found him at the large window catching flies and pulling off their wings . 
He did not see me and I gave him a box on the ears that laid him sprawling on the floor . 
Well , angry as I was , I was almost frightened , he roared and bellowed in such a style . 
The boys rushed in from the playground , and the master ran in from the road to see who was being murdered . 
On the other hand , where we saw people who loved their neighbors , and were kind to man and beast , we might know that was God's mark . 
He looked rather serious , and held an open letter in his hand . 
John fastened the door of my box , touched his cap , and waited for orders . 
Good morning , John , said the master . 
I want to know if you have any complaint to make of James . 
Complaint , sir ? No , sir . 
Is he industrious at his work and respectful to you ? Yes , sir , always . 
You never find he slights his work when your back is turned ? Never , sir . 
That's well but I must put another question . 
I have a letter from my brother in law , Sir Clifford Williams , of Clifford Hall . 
He wants me to find him a trustworthy young groom , about twenty or twenty one , who knows his business . 
He would have eighteen shillings a week at first , a stable suit , a driving suit , a bedroom over the coachhouse , and a boy under him . 
Sir Clifford is a good master , and if you could get the place it would be a good start for you . 
I don't want to part with you , and if you left us I know John would lose his right hand . 
That I should , sir , said John , but I would not stand in his light for the world . 
How old are you , James ? said master . 
Nineteen next May , sir . 
At the first John rode with him on the box , telling him this and that , and after that James drove alone . 
Then it was wonderful what a number of places the master would go to in the city on Saturday , and what queer streets we were driven through . 
The first day we traveled thirty two miles . 
There were some long , heavy hills , but James drove so carefully and thoughtfully that we were not at all harassed . 
He never forgot to put on the brake as we went downhill , nor to take it off at the right place . 
All these little things help a horse very much , particularly if he gets kind words into the bargain . 
We stopped once or twice on the road , and just as the sun was going down we reached the town where we were to spend the night . 
Two hostlers came to take us out . 
The head hostler was a pleasant , active little man , with a crooked leg , and a yellow striped waistcoat . 
The other man brought Ginger James stood by while we were rubbed down and cleaned . 
I never was cleaned so lightly and quickly as by that little old man . 
But I could not live without horses , of course I couldn't , so I took to the hotels . 
Give me the handling of a horse for twenty minutes , and I'll tell you what sort of a groom he has had . 
Poor things ! I know what sort of treatment they have had . 
If they are timid it makes them start or shy if they are high mettled it makes them vicious or dangerous their tempers are mostly made when they are young . 
I like to hear you talk , said James , that's the way we lay it down at home , at our master's . 
Who is your master , young man ? if it be a proper question . 
I should judge he is a good one , from what I see . 
He is Squire Gordon , of Birtwick Park , the other side the Beacon Hills , said James . 
Ah ! so , so , I have heard tell of him fine judge of horses , ain't he ? the best rider in the county . 
I believe he is , said James , but he rides very little now , since the poor young master was killed . 
Ah ! poor gentleman I read all about it in the paper at the time . 
A fine horse killed , too , wasn't there ? Yes , said James he was a splendid creature , brother to this one , and just like him . 
Now , I am for bold riding as much as any man , but still there are some leaps that only a very knowing old huntsman has any right to take . 
A man's life and a horse's life are worth more than a fox's tail at least , I should say they ought to be . 
During this time the other man had finished Ginger and had brought our corn , and James and the old man left the stable together . 
All right , said the other , and went up through the trapdoor and I heard him step across the floor overhead and put down the hay . 
James came in to look at us the last thing , and then the door was locked . 
I cannot say how long I had slept , nor what time in the night it was , but I woke up very uncomfortable , though I hardly knew why . 
I got up the air seemed all thick and choking . 
The trapdoor had been left open , and I thought that was the place it came through . 
I listened , and heard a soft rushing sort of noise and a low crackling and snapping . 
I did not know what it was , but there was something in the sound so strange that it made me tremble all over . 
The other horses were all awake some were pulling at their halters , others stamping . 
The first horse would not go with him he tried the second and third , and they too would not stir . 
He came to me next and tried to drag me out of the stall by force of course that was no use . 
He tried us all by turns and then left the stable . 
No doubt we were very foolish , but danger seemed to be all round , and there was nobody we knew to trust in , and all was strange and uncertain . 
The next thing I heard was James' voice , quiet and cheery , as it always was . 
Come , my beauties , it is time for us to be off , so wake up and come along . 
I stood nearest the door , so he came to me first , patting me as he came in . 
Come , Beauty , on with your bridle , my boy , we'll soon be out of this smother . 
Safe in the yard , he slipped the scarf off my eyes , and shouted , Here somebody ! take this horse while I go back for the other . 
A tall , broad man stepped forward and took me , and James darted back into the stable . 
I set up a shrill whinny as I saw him go . 
Ginger told me afterward that whinny was the best thing I could have done for her , for had she not heard me outside she would never have had courage to come out . 
My brave lad ! said master , laying his hand on his shoulder , are you hurt ? James shook his head , for he could not yet speak . 
Ay , said the big man who held me he is a brave lad , and no mistake . 
The firemen leaped to the ground there was no need to ask where the fire was it was rolling up in a great blaze from the roof . 
We got out as fast as we could into the broad quiet market place the stars were shining , and except the noise behind us , all was still . 
The master did not run , but I never saw mortal man walk so fast as he did that night . 
We , however , were taken in and well done by . 
The next morning the master came to see how we were and to speak to James . 
I did not hear much , for the hostler was rubbing me down , but I could see that James looked very happy , and I thought the master was proud of him . 
When he came back we heard him tell the hostler about it . 
Then the under hostler said he had asked Dick to go up the ladder to put down some hay , but told him to lay down his pipe first . 
Dick denied taking the pipe with him , but no one believed him . 
I remember our John Manly's rule , never to allow a pipe in the stable , and thought it ought to be the rule everywhere . 
John Manly's Talk The rest of our journey was very easy , and a little after sunset we reached the house of my master's friend . 
I don't know why they won't come out , but they won't not one in twenty . 
We stopped two or three days at this place and then returned home . 
All went well on the journey we were glad to be in our own stable again , and John was equally glad to see us . 
Before he and James left us for the night James said , I wonder who is coming in my place . 
Little Joe Green at the lodge , said John . 
Little Joe Green ! why , he's a child ! He is fourteen and a half , said John . 
He said if I thought he would not do he would look out for a bigger boy but I said I was quite agreeable to try him for six weeks . 
Six weeks ! said James why , it will be six months before he can be of much use ! It will make you a deal of work , John . 
Well , said John with a laugh , work and I are very good friends I never was afraid of work yet . 
You are a very good man , said James . 
I wish I may ever be like you . 
I was a farmer's boy , not earning enough to keep myself , much less both of us , and she must have gone to the workhouse but for our mistress . 
Then the master he took me into the stable under old Norman , the coachman that was then . 
I had my food at the house and my bed in the loft , and a suit of clothes , and three shillings a week , so that I could help Nelly . 
So you see , James , I am not the man that should turn up his nose at a little boy and vex a good , kind master . 
James laughed at this but there was a thickness in his voice when he said , You have been my best friend except my mother I hope you won't forget me . 
No , lad , no ! said John , and if ever I can do you a good turn I hope you won't forget me . 
The next day Joe came to the stables to learn all he could before James left . 
He learned to sweep the stable , to bring in the straw and hay he began to clean the harness , and helped to wash the carriage . 
He was a nice little bright fellow , and always came whistling to his work . 
At last the day came when James had to leave us cheerful as he always was , he looked quite down hearted that morning . 
At the new place there will not be a soul that I shall know . 
Ay , James , lad , so it is but I should not think much of you if you could leave your home for the first time and not feel it . 
So John cheered him up , but every one was sorry to lose James as for Merrylegs , he pined after him for several days , and went quite off his appetite . 
I heard the door of John's house open , and his feet running up to the hall . 
He just ran round for his coat , and then took me at a quick trot up to the hall door . 
The squire stood there , with a lamp in his hand . 
Now , John , he said , ride for your life that is , for your mistress' life there is not a moment to lose . 
Give this note to Dr . 
White give your horse a rest at the inn , and be back as soon as you can . 
John said , Yes , sir , and was on my back in a minute . 
John called very loud and thumped upon the door the man was soon out and flung open the gate . 
Now , said John , do you keep the gate open for the doctor here's the money , and off he went again . 
When we came to the bridge John pulled me up a little and patted my neck . 
Well done , Beauty ! good old fellow , he said . 
He would have let me go slower , but my spirit was up , and I was off again as fast as before . 
The air was frosty , the moon was bright it was very pleasant . 
It was all quite still except the clatter of my feet on the stones everybody was asleep . 
The church clock struck three as we drew up at Dr . 
John rang the bell twice , and then knocked at the door like thunder . 
A window was thrown up , and Dr . 
Wait , he said , I will come . 
He shut the window , and was soon at the door . 
All right , he said I will soon be ready . 
John stood by me and stroked my neck I was very hot . 
The doctor came out with his riding whip . 
You need not take that , sir , said John Black Beauty will go till he drops . 
Take care of him , sir , if you can I should not like any harm to come to him . 
No , no , John , said the doctor , I hope not , and in a minute we had left John far behind . 
I will not tell about our way back . 
The doctor was a heavier man than John , and not so good a rider however , I did my very best . 
The man at the toll gate had it open . 
When we came to the hill the doctor drew me up . 
Now , my good fellow , he said , take some breath . 
I was glad he did , for I was nearly spent , but that breathing helped me on , and soon we were in the park . 
Joe was at the lodge gate my master was at the hall door , for he had heard us coming . 
He spoke not a word the doctor went into the house with him , and Joe led me to the stable . 
I was glad to get home my legs shook under me , and I could only stand and pant . 
He rubbed my legs and my chest , but he did not put my warm cloth on me he thought I was so hot I should not like it . 
Soon I began to shake and tremble , and turned deadly cold my legs ached , my loins ached , and my chest ached , and I felt sore all over . 
Oh ! how I wished for my warm , thick cloth , as I stood and trembled . 
I wished for John , but he had eight miles to walk , so I lay down in my straw and tried to go to sleep . 
After a long while I heard John at the door I gave a low moan , for I was in great pain . 
He was at my side in a moment , stooping down by me . 
John seemed to be very much put out . 
I was now very ill a strong inflammation had attacked my lungs , and I could not draw my breath without pain . 
John nursed me night and day he would get up two or three times in the night to come to me . 
My master , too , often came to see me . 
My poor Beauty , he said one day , my good horse , you saved your mistress' life , Beauty yes , you saved her life . 
I was very glad to hear that , for it seems the doctor had said if we had been a little longer it would have been too late . 
John told my master he never saw a horse go so fast in his life . 
It seemed as if the horse knew what was the matter . 
Only Ignorance I do not know how long I was ill . 
Mr. Bond , the horse doctor , came every day . 
One day he bled me John held a pail for the blood . 
I felt very faint after it and thought I should die , and I believe they all thought so too . 
I knew all that was going on . 
One night John had to give me a draught Thomas Green came in to help him . 
After I had taken it and John had made me as comfortable as he could , he said he should stay half an hour to see how the medicine settled . 
For awhile both men sat silent , and then Tom Green said in a low voice I wish , John , you'd say a bit of a kind word to Joe . 
The boy is quite broken hearted he can't eat his meals , and he can't smile . 
It goes to my heart to hear him . 
I think you might give him just a word he is not a bad boy . 
After a short pause John said slowly , You must not be too hard upon me , Tom . 
I know he meant no harm , I never said he did I know he is not a bad boy . 
But if you think I am hard on the boy I will try to give him a good word to morrow that is , I mean if Beauty is better . 
Well , John , thank you . 
I knew you did not wish to be too hard , and I am glad you see it was only ignorance . 
If people can say , Oh ! I did not know , I did not mean any harm , they think it is all right . 
I suppose Martha Mulwash did not mean to kill that baby when she dosed it with Dalby and soothing syrups but she did kill it , and was tried for manslaughter . 
And serve her right , too , said Tom . 
A woman should not undertake to nurse a tender little child without knowing what is good and what is bad for it . 
A good many ! said Tom there was not one of the tender cuttings that was not nipped off . 
I shall have to strike all over again , and the worst of it is that I don't know where to go to get fresh ones . 
I was nearly mad when I came in and saw what was done . 
And yet , said John , I am sure the young ladies did not mean it it was only ignorance . 
The note was delivered , and we were quietly returning when we came to the brick field . 
It was a sad sight . 
Hold hard , said Joe don't go on flogging the horses like that the wheels are so stuck that they cannot move the cart . 
The man took no heed , but went on lashing . 
Stop ! pray stop ! said Joe . 
I'll help you to lighten the cart they can't move it now . 
Joe turned my head , and the next moment we were going at a round gallop toward the house of the master brick maker . 
I cannot say if John would have approved of our pace , but Joe and I were both of one mind , and so angry that we could not have gone slower . 
The house stood close by the roadside . 
Joe knocked at the door , and shouted , Halloo ! Is Mr. Clay at home ? The door was opened , and Mr. Clay himself came out . 
I told him to stop , and he wouldn't I said I'd help him to lighten the cart , and he wouldn't so I have come to tell you . 
Pray , sir , go . 
Joe's voice shook with excitement . 
The man was gone , and we were on our way home at a smart trot . 
Why , what's the matter with you , Joe ? You look angry all over , said John , as the boy flung himself from the saddle . 
I am angry all over , I can tell you , said the boy , and then in hurried , excited words he told all that had happened . 
Joe was usually such a quiet , gentle little fellow that it was wonderful to see him so roused . 
Right , Joe ! you did right , my boy , whether the fellow gets a summons or not . 
Many folks would have ridden by and said it was not their business to interfere . 
Now I say that with cruelty and oppression it is everybody's business to interfere when they see it you did right , my boy . 
Joe was quite calm by this time , and proud that John approved of him , and cleaned out my feet and rubbed me down with a firmer hand than usual . 
The boy flushed up to his forehead , and his eyes sparkled . 
They shall have it , said he . 
Put yourself a bit straight , said John . 
Joe gave a pull at his necktie and a twitch at his jacket , and was off in a moment . 
Our master being one of the county magistrates , cases were often brought to him to settle , or say what should be done . 
It was wonderful what a change had come over Joe . 
John laughed , and said he had grown an inch taller in that week , and I believe he had . 
The Parting Now I had lived in this happy place three years , but sad changes were about to come over us . 
We heard from time to time that our mistress was ill . 
The doctor was often at the house , and the master looked grave and anxious . 
Then we heard that she must leave her home at once , and go to a warm country for two or three years . 
The news fell upon the household like the tolling of a deathbell . 
Everybody was sorry but the master began directly to make arrangements for breaking up his establishment and leaving England . 
We used to hear it talked about in our stable indeed , nothing else was talked about . 
John went about his work silent and sad , and Joe scarcely whistled . 
There was a great deal of coming and going Ginger and I had full work . 
The first of the party who went were Miss Jessie and Flora , with their governess . 
They came to bid us good by . 
They hugged poor Merrylegs like an old friend , and so indeed he was . 
Then we heard what had been arranged for us . 
Master had sold Ginger and me to his old friend , the Earl of W , for he thought we should have a good place there . 
Joe was engaged to take care of him and to help in the house , so I thought that Merrylegs was well off . 
John had the offer of several good places , but he said he should wait a little and look round . 
The evening before they left the master came into the stable to give some directions , and to give his horses the last pat . 
He seemed very low spirited I knew that by his voice . 
I believe we horses can tell more by the voice than many men can . 
Have you decided what to do , John ? he said . 
I find you have not accepted either of those offers . 
Many young animals are frightened and spoiled by wrong treatment , which need not be if the right man took them in hand . 
I always get on well with horses , and if I could help some of them to a fair start I should feel as if I was doing some good . 
What do you think of it , sir ? I don't know a man anywhere , said master , that I should think so suitable for it as yourself . 
You understand horses , and somehow they understand you , and in time you might set up for yourself I think you could not do better . 
If in any way I can help you , write to me . 
I shall speak to my agent in London , and leave your character with him . 
Master gave John the name and address , and then he thanked him for his long and faithful service but that was too much for John . 
Pray , don't , sir , I can't bear it you and my dear mistress have done so much for me that I could never repay it . 
But we shall never forget you , sir , and please God , we may some day see mistress back again like herself we must keep up hope , sir . 
Master gave John his hand , but he did not speak , and they both left the stable . 
The last sad day had come the footman and the heavy luggage had gone off the day before , and there were only master and mistress and her maid . 
Ginger and I brought the carriage up to the hall door for the last time . 
he placed her carefully in the carriage , while the house servants stood round crying . 
Good by , again , he said we shall not forget any of you , and he got in . 
When we reached the railway station I think mistress walked from the carriage to the waiting room . 
I heard her say in her own sweet voice , Good by , John . 
I felt the rein twitch , but John made no answer perhaps he could not speak . 
As soon as Joe had taken the things out of the carriage John called him to stand by the horses , while he went on the platform . 
Poor Joe ! he stood close up to our heads to hide his tears . 
When it was quite out of sight John came back . 
We shall never see her again , he said never . 
He took the reins , mounted the box , and with Joe drove slowly home but it was not our home now . 
Then John put the saddle on Ginger and the leading rein on me , and rode us across the country about fifteen miles to Earlshall Park , where the Earl of W lived . 
There was a very fine house and a great deal of stabling . 
We went into the yard through a stone gateway , and John asked for Mr. York . 
It was some time before he came . 
He was a fine looking , middle aged man , and his voice said at once that he expected to be obeyed . 
We were taken to a light , airy stable , and placed in boxes adjoining each other , where we were rubbed down and fed . 
In about half an hour John and Mr. York , who was to be our new coachman , came in to see us . 
I should like to know if there is anything particular in either of these that you would like to mention . 
You know that many high mettled horses will do so . 
Of course , said York , I quite understand but you know it is not easy in stables like these to have all the grooms just what they should be . 
I do my best , and there I must leave it . 
I'll remember what you have said about the mare . 
Well , said York , if they come here they must wear the check rein . 
He came round to each of us to pat and speak to us for the last time his voice sounded very sad . 
I held my face close to him that was all I could do to say good by and then he was gone , and I have never seen him since . 
The next day Lord W came to look at us he seemed pleased with our appearance . 
I have great confidence in these horses , he said , from the character my friend Mr. Gordon has given me of them . 
Of course they are not a match in color , but my idea is that they will do very well for the carriage while we are in the country . 
Before we go to London I must try to match Baron the black horse , I believe , is perfect for riding . 
York then told him what John had said about us . 
I'll mention it to your lady . 
In the afternoon we were harnessed and put in the carriage , and as the stable clock struck three we were led round to the front of the house . 
It was all very grand , and three or four times as large as the old house at Birtwick , but not half so pleasant , if a horse may have an opinion . 
Two footmen were standing ready , dressed in drab livery , with scarlet breeches and white stockings . 
Presently we heard the rustling sound of silk as my lady came down the flight of stone steps . 
I felt anxious about Ginger , but she seemed to be quiet and content . 
Do so , she said . 
Then I began to understand what I had heard of . 
Ginger , too , seemed restless , though she said very little . 
A Strike for Liberty One day my lady came down later than usual , and the silk rustled more than ever . 
York came to me first , while the groom stood at Ginger's head . 
At once they both flew to her head but she was a match for them , and went on plunging , rearing , and kicking in a most desperate manner . 
At last she kicked right over the carriage pole and fell down , after giving me a severe blow on my near quarter . 
The groom soon set me free from Ginger and the carriage , and led me to my box . 
He just turned me in as I was and ran back to York . 
I was very miserable and felt much inclined to kick the first person who came near me . 
Before long , however , Ginger was led in by two grooms , a good deal knocked about and bruised . 
York came with her and gave his orders , and then came to look at me . 
In a moment he let down my head . 
Confound these check reins ! he said to himself I thought we should have some mischief soon . 
Master will be sorely vexed . 
York did not say this before the men he always spoke respectfully when they were by . 
Now he felt me all over , and soon found the place above my hock where I had been kicked . 
It was swelled and painful he ordered it to be sponged with hot water , and then some lotion was put on . 
I thought York might have stood up better for his horses , but perhaps I am no judge . 
As for me , I was obliged still to go in the carriage , and had a fresh partner called Max he had always been used to the tight rein . 
I asked him how it was he bore it . 
Well , he said , I bear it because I must but it is shortening my life , and it will shorten yours too if you have to stick to it . 
A gentleman who was there asked him why he did so . 
Because , said he , people won't buy them unless we do . 
The London people always want their horses to carry their heads high and to step high . 
Of course it is very bad for the horses , but then it is good for trade . 
The horses soon wear up , or get diseased , and they come for another pair . 
That , said Max , is what he said in my hearing , and you can judge for yourself . 
In my old home I always knew that John and my master were my friends but here , although in many ways I was well treated , I had no friend . 
The Lady Anne , or a Runaway Horse Early in the spring , Lord W and part of his family went up to London , and took York with them . 
I and Ginger and some other horses were left at home for use , and the head groom was left in charge . 
She was a perfect horsewoman , and as gay and gentle as she was beautiful . 
She chose me for her horse , and named me Black Auster . 
I enjoyed these rides very much in the clear cold air , sometimes with Ginger , sometimes with Lizzie . 
When we came to the door the gentleman seemed very uneasy . 
How is this ? he said . 
You must confess that in size and appearance she is far more like a lady's horse than my own favorite . 
Do let me advise you not to mount her , he said she is a charming creature , but she is too nervous for a lady . 
I assure you , she is not perfectly safe let me beg you to have the saddles changed . 
My dear cousin , said Lady Anne , laughing , pray do not trouble your good careful head about me . 
Just as we were moving off a footman came out with a slip of paper and message from the Lady Harriet . 
Would they ask this question for her at Dr . 
Ashley's , and bring the answer ? The village was about a mile off , and the doctor's house was the last in it . 
We went along gayly enough till we came to his gate . 
There was a short drive up to the house between tall evergreens . 
He looked at her doubtfully . 
I will not be five minutes , he said . 
Oh , do not hurry yourself Lizzie and I shall not run away from you . 
He hung my rein on one of the iron spikes , and was soon hidden among the trees . 
Lizzie was standing quietly by the side of the road a few paces off , with her back to me . 
My young mistress was sitting easily with a loose rein , humming a little song . 
I listened to my rider's footsteps until they reached the house , and heard him knock at the door . 
It was so sudden that Lady Anne was nearly unseated , but she soon recovered herself . 
I gave a loud , shrill neigh for help again and again I neighed , pawing the ground impatiently , and tossing my head to get the rein loose . 
I had not long to wait . 
Blantyre came running to the gate he looked anxiously about , and just caught sight of the flying figure , now far away on the road . 
In an instant he sprang to the saddle . 
For about a mile and a half the road ran straight , and then bent to the right , after which it divided into two roads . 
Long before we came to the bend she was out of sight . 
Which way had she turned ? A woman was standing at her garden gate , shading her eyes with her hand , and looking eagerly up the road . 
Several times we caught glimpses , and then lost them . 
We scarcely seemed to gain ground upon them at all . 
An old road mender was standing near a heap of stones , his shovel dropped and his hands raised . 
As we came near he made a sign to speak . 
Blantyre drew the rein a little . 
To the common , to the common , sir she has turned off there . 
We had hardly turned on the common , when we caught sight again of the green habit flying on before us . 
My lady's hat was gone , and her long brown hair was streaming behind her . 
Her head and body were thrown back , as if she were pulling with all her remaining strength , and as if that strength were nearly exhausted . 
It was clear that the roughness of the ground had very much lessened Lizzie's speed , and there seemed a chance that we might overtake her . 
About halfway across the heath there had been a wide dike recently cut , and the earth from the cutting was cast up roughly on the other side . 
Surely this would stop them ! But no with scarcely a pause Lizzie took the leap , stumbled among the rough clods and fell . 
Blantyre groaned , Now , Auster , do your best ! He gave me a steady rein . 
I gathered myself well together and with one determined leap cleared both dike and bank . 
Motionless among the heather , with her face to the earth , lay my poor young mistress . 
Blantyre kneeled down and called her name there was no sound . 
Gently he turned her face upward it was ghastly white and the eyes were closed . 
Annie , dear Annie , do speak ! But there was no answer . 
He unbuttoned her habit , loosened her collar , felt her hands and wrist , then started up and looked wildly round him for help . 
At no great distance there were two men cutting turf , who , seeing Lizzie running wild without a rider , had left their work to catch her . 
Blantyre's halloo soon brought them to the spot . 
The foremost man seemed much troubled at the sight , and asked what he could do . 
All right , sir , I'll do my best , and I pray God the dear young lady may open her eyes soon . 
They asked him in to take a drop of something . 
No , no , he said I'll be back to 'em again by a short cut through the fields , and be there afore the carriage . 
There was a great deal of hurry and excitement after the news became known . 
I was just turned into my box the saddle and bridle were taken off , and a cloth thrown over me . 
Ginger was saddled and sent off in great haste for Lord George , and I soon heard the carriage roll out of the yard . 
It seemed a long time before Ginger came back , and before we were left alone and then she told me all that she had seen . 
I can't tell much , she said . 
We went a gallop nearly all the way , and got there just as the doctor rode up . 
There was a woman sitting on the ground with the lady's head in her lap . 
The doctor poured something into her mouth , but all that I heard was , She is not dead . 
Then I was led off by a man to a little distance . 
After awhile she was taken to the carriage , and we came home together . 
I heard my master say to a gentleman who stopped him to inquire , that he hoped no bones were broken , but that she had not spoken yet . 
She had too much spirit to complain , but I could not help feeling anxious about her . 
I could not have held him in if I would , said he , she ought never to ride any other horse . 
I found by their conversation that my young mistress was now out of danger , and would soon be able to ride again . 
This was good news to me and I looked forward to a happy life . 
Reuben Smith Now I must say a little about Reuben Smith , who was left in charge of the stables when York went to London . 
No one more thoroughly understood his business than he did , and when he was all right there could not be a more faithful or valuable man . 
He was gentle and very clever in his management of horses , and could doctor them almost as well as a farrier , for he had lived two years with a veterinary surgeon . 
He was a first rate driver he could take a four in hand or a tandem as easily as a pair . 
He was a handsome man , a good scholar , and had very pleasant manners . 
I believe everybody liked him certainly the horses did . 
Old Max told me all this , for it happened a good while ago but shortly before Ginger and I came Smith had been taken back again . 
It was now early in April , and the family was expected home some time in May . 
A nail in one of my front shoes had started as I came along , but the hostler did not notice it till just about four o'clock . 
Smith did not come into the yard till five , and then he said he should not leave till six , as he had met with some old friends . 
The man then told him of the nail , and asked if he should have the shoe looked to . 
No , said Smith , that will be all right till we get home . 
He seemed in a very bad temper , and abused the hostler , though I could not tell what for . 
The moon had not yet risen , and it was very dark . 
The roads were stony , having been recently mended going over them at this pace , my shoe became looser , and as we neared the turnpike gate it came off . 
If Smith had been in his right senses he would have been sensible of something wrong in my pace , but he was too drunk to notice . 
Of course my shoeless foot suffered dreadfully the hoof was broken and split down to the very quick , and the inside was terribly cut by the sharpness of the stones . 
This could not go on no horse could keep his footing under such circumstances the pain was too great . 
I stumbled , and fell with violence on both my knees . 
Smith was flung off by my fall , and , owing to the speed I was going at , he must have fallen with great force . 
I soon recovered my feet and limped to the side of the road , where it was free from stones . 
The moon had just risen above the hedge , and by its light I could see Smith lying a few yards beyond me . 
He did not rise he made one slight effort to do so , and then there was a heavy groan . 
I could have groaned , too , for I was suffering intense pain both from my foot and knees but horses are used to bear their pain in silence . 
I uttered no sound , but I stood there and listened . 
One more heavy groan from Smith but though he now lay in the full moonlight I could see no motion . 
I stood watching and listening . 
It made me think of the summer nights long ago , when I used to lie beside my mother in the green pleasant meadow at Farmer Grey's . 
How it Ended It must have been nearly midnight when I heard at a great distance the sound of a horse's feet . 
Sometimes the sound died away , then it grew clearer again and nearer . 
The road to Earlshall led through woods that belonged to the earl the sound came in that direction , and I hoped it might be some one coming in search of us . 
As the sound came nearer and nearer I was almost sure I could distinguish Ginger's step a little nearer still , and I could tell she was in the dog cart . 
I neighed loudly , and was overjoyed to hear an answering neigh from Ginger , and men's voices . 
They came slowly over the stones , and stopped at the dark figure that lay upon the ground . 
One of the men jumped out , and stooped down over it . 
It is Reuben , he said , and he does not stir ! The other man followed , and bent over him . 
He's dead , he said feel how cold his hands are . 
They raised him up , but there was no life , and his hair was soaked with blood . 
They laid him down again , and came and looked at me . 
They soon saw my cut knees . 
Why , the horse has been down and thrown him ! Who would have thought the black horse would have done that ? Nobody thought he could fall . 
Reuben must have been lying here for hours ! Odd , too , that the horse has not moved from the place . 
Robert then attempted to lead me forward . 
I made a step , but almost fell again . 
Halloo ! he's bad in his foot as well as his knees . 
I'm afraid it has been the old thing over again . 
Poor Susan ! she looked awfully pale when she came to my house to ask if he had not come home . 
She made believe she was not a bit anxious , and talked of a lot of things that might have kept him . 
But for all that she begged me to go and meet him . 
But what must we do ? There's the horse to get home as well as the body , and that will be no easy matter . 
Then followed a conversation between them , till it was agreed that Robert , as the groom , should lead me , and that Ned must take the body . 
I noticed that , because , if she had a fault , it was that she was impatient in standing . 
I shall never forget that night walk it was more than three miles . 
Robert led me on very slowly , and I limped and hobbled on as well as I could with great pain . 
I am sure he was sorry for me , for he often patted and encouraged me , talking to me in a pleasant voice . 
I believe they did the best to make a good cure , but it was a long and painful one . 
As Smith's death had been so sudden , and no one was there to see it , there was an inquest held . 
The landlord and hostler at the White Lion , with several other people , gave evidence that he was intoxicated when he started from the inn . 
Ginger and I had become fast friends , and now I missed her company extremely . 
The man slipped off her halter , and left her there . 
Lord George was young and would take no warning he was a hard rider , and would hunt whenever he could get the chance , quite careless of his horse . 
Soon after I left the stable there was a steeplechase , and he determined to ride . 
We both felt in ourselves that we were not what we had been . 
One day we saw the earl come into the meadow , and York was with him . 
Seeing who it was , we stood still under our lime tree , and let them come up to us . 
The earl seemed much annoyed . 
No , my lord , of course not , said York but he might get a place where appearance is not of much consequence , and still be well treated . 
I know a man in Bath , the master of some livery stables , who often wants a good horse at a low figure I know he looks well after his horses . 
The inquest cleared the horse's character , and your lordship's recommendation , or mine , would be sufficient warrant for him . 
You had better write to him , York . 
I should be more particular about the place than the money he would fetch . 
After this they left us . 
They'll soon take you away , said Ginger , and I shall lose the only friend I have , and most likely we shall never see each other again . 
'Tis a hard world ! About a week after this Robert came into the field with a halter , which he slipped over my head , and led me away . 
Through the recommendation of York , I was bought by the master of the livery stables . 
When I reached the end of my journey I found myself in a tolerably comfortable stable , and well attended to . 
These stables were not so airy and pleasant as those I had been used to . 
He kept a good many horses and carriages of different kinds for hire . 
Sometimes his own men drove them at others , the horse and chaise were let to gentlemen or ladies who drove themselves . 
It would take a long time to tell of all the different styles in which I was driven , but I will mention a few of them . 
They are always talking about keeping the horse well in hand , and holding a horse up , just as if a horse was not made to hold himself up . 
Then there are the loose rein drivers , who let the reins lie easily on our backs , and their own hand rest lazily on their knees . 
Of course , such gentlemen have no control over a horse , if anything happens suddenly . 
If a horse shies , or starts , or stumbles , they are nowhere , and cannot help the horse or themselves till the mischief is done . 
Still , one likes to feel the rein a little in going downhill , and likes to know that one's driver is not gone to sleep . 
Squire Gordon always kept us to our best paces and our best manners . 
He said that spoiling a horse and letting him get into bad habits was just as cruel as spoiling a child , and both had to suffer for it afterward . 
Besides , these drivers are often careless altogether , and will attend to anything else more than their horses . 
I went out in the phaeton one day with one of them he had a lady and two children behind . 
He flopped the reins about as we started , and of course gave me several unmeaning cuts with the whip , though I was fairly off . 
There had been a good deal of road mending going on , and even where the stones were not freshly laid down there were a great many loose ones about . 
Now , if Mr. Gordon or John , or in fact any good driver , had been there , he would have seen that something was wrong before I had gone three paces . 
But this man went on laughing and talking , while at every step the stone became more firmly wedged between my shoe and the frog of my foot . 
Whether the man was partly blind or only very careless I can't say , but he drove me with that stone in my foot for a good half mile before he saw anything . 
Just at this time a farmer came riding up on a brown cob . 
He lifted his hat and pulled up . 
If you will allow me I will look at his feet these loose scattered stones are confounded dangerous things for the horses . 
He's a hired horse , said my driver . 
I don't know what's the matter with him , but it is a great shame to send out a lame beast like this . 
The farmer dismounted , and slipping his rein over his arm at once took up my near foot . 
Then holding it up he said , There , that's the stone your horse had picked up . 
Didn't you ? said the farmer rather contemptuously but they do , though , and the best of them will do it , and can't help it sometimes on such roads as these . 
And if you don't want to lame your horse you must look sharp and get them out quickly . 
This foot is very much bruised , he said , setting it gently down and patting me . 
If I might advise , sir , you had better drive him gently for awhile the foot is a good deal hurt , and the lameness will not go off directly . 
Then mounting his cob and raising his hat to the lady he trotted off . 
This was the sort of experience we job horses often came in for . 
Cockneys Then there is the steam engine style of driving these drivers were mostly people from towns , who never had a horse of their own and generally traveled by rail . 
They always seemed to think that a horse was something like a steam engine , only smaller . 
These people never think of getting out to walk up a steep hill . 
This steam engine style of driving wears us up faster than any other kind . 
I would far rather go twenty miles with a good considerate driver than I would go ten with some of these it would take less out of me . 
I well remember one spring evening I and Rory had been out for the day . 
We had our own driver , and as he was always considerate and gentle with us , we had a very pleasant day . 
We were coming home at a good smart pace , about twilight . 
As we neared the corner I heard a horse and two wheels coming rapidly down the hill toward us . 
The hedge was high , and I could see nothing , but the next moment we were upon each other . 
Happily for me , I was on the side next the hedge . 
Rory was on the left side of the pole , and had not even a shaft to protect him . 
The man who was driving was making straight for the corner , and when he came in sight of us he had no time to pull over to his own side . 
The whole shock came upon Rory . 
The gig shaft ran right into the chest , making him stagger back with a cry that I shall never forget . 
The other horse was thrown upon his haunches and one shaft broken . 
It turned out that it was a horse from our own stables , with the high wheeled gig that the young men were so fond of . 
The driver was one of those random , ignorant fellows , who don't even know which is their own side of the road , or , if they know , don't care . 
And there was poor Rory with his flesh torn open and bleeding , and the blood streaming down . 
They said if it had been a little more to one side it would have killed him and a good thing for him , poor fellow , if it had . 
After Rory was disabled I often went in the carriage with a mare named Peggy , who stood in the next stall to mine . 
She was a strong , well made animal , of a bright dun color , beautifully dappled , and with a dark brown mane and tail . 
There was no high breeding about her , but she was very pretty and remarkably sweet tempered and willing . 
Still , there was an anxious look about her eye , by which I knew that she had some trouble . 
It was very unpleasant for any horse who pulled with her , and made me quite fidgety . 
When we got home I asked her what made her go in that odd , awkward way . 
You see I did not make myself . 
I wish I could have done so I would have had long legs then . 
All my troubles come from my short legs , said Peggy , in a desponding tone . 
And so I have had to keep up as I could , and have got into this ugly shuffling pace . 
It was not always so when I lived with my first master I always went a good regular trot , but then he was not in such a hurry . 
He was a young clergyman in the country , and a good , kind master he was . 
He had two churches a good way apart , and a great deal of work , but he never scolded or whipped me for not going faster . 
He was very fond of me . 
I only wish I was with him now but he had to leave and go to a large town , and then I was sold to a farmer . 
Some farmers , you know , are capital masters but I think this one was a low sort of man . 
He cared nothing about good horses or good driving he only cared for going fast . 
I went as fast as I could , but that would not do , and he was always whipping so I got into this way of making a spring forward to keep up . 
On market nights he used to stay very late at the inn , and then drive home at a gallop . 
He was thrown out and his arm broken , and some of his ribs , I think . 
At any rate , it was the end of my living with him , and I was not sorry . 
But you see it will be the same everywhere for me , if men must go so fast . 
I met her several times out in the country , going a good steady pace , and looking as gay and contented as a horse could be . 
I was very glad to see her , for she deserved a good place . 
After she left us another horse came in her stead . 
He was young , and had a bad name for shying and starting , by which he had lost a good place . 
I asked him what made him shy . 
Well , I hardly know , he said . 
One day an old gentleman was riding with him , and a large piece of white paper or rag blew across just on one side of me . 
I shied and started forward . 
So I suppose all men don't do so . 
I knew what my companion said was true , and I wished that every young horse had as good masters as Farmer Grey and Squire Gordon . 
Of course we sometimes came in for good driving here . 
I remember one morning I was put into the light gig , and taken to a house in Pulteney Street . 
Do you consider this horse wants a curb ? he said to the hostler . 
I don't like it , said the gentleman be so good as to take it off , and put the rein in at the cheek . 
An easy mouth is a great thing on a long journey , is it not , old fellow ? he said , patting my neck . 
Then he took the reins , and they both got up . 
I can remember now how quietly he turned me round , and then with a light feel of the rein , and drawing the whip gently across my back , we were off . 
I arched my neck and set off at my best pace . 
I found I had some one behind me who knew how a good horse ought to be driven . 
It seemed like old times again , and made me feel quite gay . 
And so it came to pass that in the summer I was sold to Mr. Barry . 
A Thief My new master was an unmarried man . 
He lived at Bath , and was much engaged in business . 
His doctor advised him to take horse exercise , and for this purpose he bought me . 
He hired a stable a short distance from his lodgings , and engaged a man named Filcher as groom . 
My master knew very little about horses , but he treated me well , and I should have had a good and easy place but for circumstances of which he was ignorant . 
He ordered the best hay with plenty of oats , crushed beans , and bran , with vetches , or rye grass , as the man might think needful . 
I heard the master give the order , so I knew there was plenty of good food , and I thought I was well off . 
For a few days all went on well . 
I found that my groom understood his business . 
He kept the stable clean and airy , and he groomed me thoroughly and was never otherwise than gentle . 
He had been an hostler in one of the great hotels in Bath . 
He had given that up , and now cultivated fruit and vegetables for the market , and his wife bred and fattened poultry and rabbits for sale . 
In two or three weeks this began to tell upon my strength and spirits . 
The grass food , though very good , was not the thing to keep up my condition without corn . 
However , I could not complain , nor make known my wants . 
So it went on for about two months and I wondered that my master did not see that something was the matter . 
However , one afternoon he rode out into the country to see a friend of his , a gentleman farmer , who lived on the road to Wells . 
Autumn , fiddlesticks ! said the farmer . 
Why , this is only August and with your light work and good food he ought not to go down like this , even if it was autumn . 
How do you feed him ? My master told him . 
The other shook his head slowly , and began to feel me over . 
I can't say who eats your corn , my dear fellow , but I am much mistaken if your horse gets it . 
Have you ridden very fast ? No , very gently . 
Then just put your hand here , said he , passing his hand over my neck and shoulder he is as warm and damp as a horse just come up from grass . 
I advise you to look into your stable a little more . 
You must look into it . 
And turning to his man , who had come to take me , Give this horse a right good feed of bruised oats , and don't stint him . 
Dumb beasts ! Yes , we are but if I could have spoken I could have told my master where his oats went to . 
My groom used to come every morning about six o'clock , and with him a little boy , who always had a covered basket with him . 
The boy looked very frightened and began to cry but there was no escape , and he led the way to the corn bin . 
Here the policeman found another empty bag like that which was found full of oats in the boy's basket . 
I heard afterward that the boy was not held to be guilty , but the man was sentenced to prison for two months . 
A Humbug My master was not immediately suited , but in a few days my new groom came . 
He was a tall , good looking fellow enough but if ever there was a humbug in the shape of a groom Alfred Smirk was the man . 
He was very civil to me , and never used me ill in fact , he did a great deal of stroking and patting when his master was there to see it . 
He left my bit rusty , my saddle damp , and my crupper stiff . 
Alfred Smirk considered himself very handsome he spent a great deal of time about his hair , whiskers and necktie , before a little looking glass in the harness room . 
I should say he was the laziest , most conceited fellow I ever came near . 
Of course , it was a great thing not to be ill used , but then a horse wants more than that . 
I had a loose box , and might have been very comfortable if he had not been too indolent to clean it out . 
I should not like to do him an injury , but I'll do it if you please , sir . 
Well , said his master , I should not like him to take cold but I don't like the smell of this stable . 
Then send for the bricklayer and have it seen to , said his master . 
Yes , sir , I will . 
I am sometimes afraid he will stumble . 
Yes , sir , said Alfred , I have noticed the same myself , when I have exercised him . 
This often disordered my health , and made me sometimes heavy and dull , but more often restless and feverish . 
I wonder your groom has not seen to it before . 
This is the sort of thing we find in foul stables , where the litter is never properly cleaned out . 
If you will send him here to morrow I will attend to the hoof , and I will direct your man how to apply the liniment which I will give him . 
The next day I had my feet thoroughly cleansed and stuffed with tow soaked in some strong lotion and an unpleasant business it was . 
The farrier ordered all the litter to be taken out of my box day by day , and the floor kept very clean . 
Then I was to have bran mashes , a little green food , and not so much corn , till my feet were well again . 
I was therefore kept till my feet were quite sound , and was then sold again . 
Part III A Horse Fair No doubt a horse fair is a very amusing place to those who have nothing to lose at any rate , there is plenty to see . 
These were sad sights for a horse to look upon , who knows not but he may come to the same state . 
I was put with two or three other strong , useful looking horses , and a good many people came to look at us . 
The gentlemen always turned from me when they saw my broken knees though the man who had me swore it was only a slip in the stall . 
It was wonderful what a difference there was in the way these things were done . 
Of course I judged a good deal of the buyers by their manners to myself . 
There was one man , I thought , if he would buy me , I should be happy . 
He was not a gentleman , nor yet one of the loud , flashy sort that call themselves so . 
He was rather a small man , but well made , and quick in all his motions . 
He offered twenty three pounds for me , but that was refused , and he walked away . 
I looked after him , but he was gone , and a very hard looking , loud voiced man came . 
I was dreadfully afraid he would have me but he walked off . 
One or two more came who did not mean business . 
Then the hard faced man came back again and offered twenty three pounds . 
I could not help reaching out my head toward him . 
He stroked my face kindly . 
Well , old chap , he said , I think we should suit each other . 
I'll give twenty four for him . 
Say twenty five and you shall have him . 
He gave me a good feed of oats and stood by while I ate it , talking to himself and talking to me . 
The gas lamps were already lighted there were streets to the right , and streets to the left , and streets crossing each other , for mile upon mile . 
I thought we should never come to the end of them . 
Have you got a good one ? I think so , replied my owner . 
I wish you luck with him . 
Thank you , governor , and he rode on . 
My owner pulled up at one of the houses and whistled . 
The door flew open , and a young woman , followed by a little girl and boy , ran out . 
There was a very lively greeting as my rider dismounted . 
Now , then , Harry , my boy , open the gates , and mother will bring us the lantern . 
The next minute they were all standing round me in a small stable yard . 
Is he gentle , father ? Yes , Dolly , as gentle as your own kitten come and pat him . 
At once the little hand was patting about all over my shoulder without fear . 
How good it felt ! Let me get him a bran mash while you rub him down , said the mother . 
Do , Polly , it's just what he wants and I know you've got a beautiful mash ready for me . 
Sausage dumpling and apple turnover ! shouted the boy , which set them all laughing . 
I was led into a comfortable , clean smelling stall , with plenty of dry straw , and after a capital supper I lay down , thinking I was going to be happy . 
A London Cab Horse Jeremiah Barker was my new master's name , but as every one called him Jerry , I shall do the same . 
Polly , his wife , was just as good a match as a man could have . 
She was a plump , trim , tidy little woman , with smooth , dark hair , dark eyes , and a merry little mouth . 
was her mother over again , at eight years old . 
They were all wonderfully fond of each other I never knew such a happy , merry family before or since . 
Jerry had a cab of his own , and two horses , which he drove and attended to himself . 
His other horse was a tall , white , rather large boned animal called Captain . 
He told me that in his early youth he went to the Crimean War he belonged to an officer in the cavalry , and used to lead the regiment . 
I will tell more of that hereafter . 
The next morning , when I was well groomed , Polly and Dolly came into the yard to see me and make friends . 
Harry had been helping his father since the early morning , and had stated his opinion that I should turn out a regular brick . 
Polly brought me a slice of apple , and Dolly a piece of bread , and made as much of me as if I had been the Black Beauty of olden time . 
It was a great treat to be petted again and talked to in a gentle voice , and I let them see as well as I could that I wished to be friendly . 
Polly thought I was very handsome , and a great deal too good for a cab , if it was not for the broken knees . 
We'll call him Jack' , after the old one shall we , Polly ? Do , she said , for I like to keep a good name going . 
Captain went out in the cab all the morning . 
Harry came in after school to feed me and give me water . 
In the afternoon I was put into the cab . 
Jerry took as much pains to see if the collar and bridle fitted comfortably as if he had been John Manly over again . 
When the crupper was let out a hole or two it all fitted well . 
There was no check rein , no curb , nothing but a plain ring snaffle . 
What a blessing that was ! After driving through the side street we came to the large cab stand where Jerry had said Good night . 
On one side of this wide street were high houses with wonderful shop fronts , and on the other was an old church and churchyard , surrounded by iron palisades . 
We pulled up in the rank at the back of the last cab . 
Two or three men came round and began to look at me and pass their remarks . 
Very good for a funeral , said one . 
Too smart looking , said another , shaking his head in a very wise way you'll find out something wrong one of these fine mornings , or my name isn't Jones . 
Thus my character was established on the stand . 
This man's name was Grant , but he was called Gray Grant , or Governor Grant . 
He had been the longest on that stand of any of the men , and he took it upon himself to settle matters and stop disputes . 
The first week of my life as a cab horse was very trying . 
Jerry was as good a driver as I had ever known , and what was better , he took as much thought for his horses as he did for himself . 
In a short time I and my master understood each other as well as horse and man can do . 
In the stable , too , he did all that he could for our comfort . 
It was on these days that I learned my companion's history . 
An Old War Horse Captain had been broken in and trained for an army horse his first owner was an officer of cavalry going out to the Crimean war . 
He was , when young , a dark , dappled iron gray , and considered very handsome . 
His master , a young , high spirited gentleman , was very fond of him , and treated him from the first with the greatest care and kindness . 
There we were placed in small close stalls , and never for a long time saw the sky , or were able to stretch our legs . 
The ship sometimes rolled about in high winds , and we were knocked about , and felt bad enough . 
My master's cheery voice , as he encouraged his men , made me feel as if he and I could not be killed . 
I had such perfect trust in him that while he was guiding me I was ready to charge up to the very cannon's mouth . 
I saw many brave men cut down , many fall mortally wounded from their saddles . 
Here old Captain paused for awhile and drew a long breath I waited , and he went on . 
The men stood by their horses waiting , ready for orders . 
As the light increased there seemed to be some excitement among the officers and before the day was well begun we heard the firing of the enemy's guns . 
He stroked my neck that morning more , I think , than he had ever done before quietly on and on , as if he were thinking of something else . 
From the right , from the left , and from the front , shot and shell poured in upon us . 
Fearful as it was , no one stopped , no one turned back . 
My master , my dear master was cheering on his comrades with his right arm raised on high , when one of the balls whizzing close to my head struck him . 
After the battle the wounded men were brought in and the dead were buried . 
I never saw my dear master again . 
I believe he fell dead from the saddle . 
I never loved any other master so well . 
I said , I have heard people talk about war as if it was a very fine thing . 
Ah ! said he , I should think they never saw it . 
No doubt it is very fine when there is no enemy , when it is just exercise and parade and sham fight . 
Yes , it is very fine then but when thousands of good brave men and horses are killed or crippled for life , it has a very different look . 
Jerry Barker I never knew a better man than my new master . 
He was kind and good , and as strong for the right as John Manly and so good tempered and merry that very few people could pick a quarrel with him . 
He was very fond of making little songs , and singing them to himself . 
One he was very fond of was this Come , father and mother , And sister and brother , Come , all of you , turn to And help one another . 
And so they did Harry was as clever at stable work as a much older boy , and always wanted to do what he could . 
There used to be a great deal of laughing and fun between them , and it put Captain and me in much better spirits than if we had heard scolding and hard words . 
They were always early in the morning , for Jerry would say If you in the morning Throw minutes away , You can't pick them up In the course of a day . 
You may hurry and scurry , And flurry and worry , You've lost them forever , Forever and aye . 
One day two wild looking young men came out of a tavern close by the stand , and called Jerry . 
I will take you at the regular pace , gentlemen shillings don't pay for putting on the steam like that . 
Then slashing his jaded horse , he set off as hard as he could . 
Jerry was the first to run and lift him up . 
He seemed much stunned , and as they led him into a shop he walked as if he were in great pain . 
Jerry of course came back to the stand , but in about ten minutes one of the shopmen called him , so we drew up to the pavement . 
I should be most thankful if you could get me there in time , and will gladly pay you an extra fare . 
I'll do my very best , said Jerry heartily , if you think you are well enough , sir , for he looked dreadfully white and ill . 
I must go , he said earnestly , please to open the door , and let us lose no time . 
The next minute Jerry was on the box with a cheery chirrup to me , and a twitch of the rein that I well understood . 
Now then , Jack , my boy , said he , spin along , we'll show them how we can get over the ground , if we only know why . 
All this is what you have to be ready for . 
If you want to get through London fast in the middle of the day it wants a deal of practice . 
Jerry and I were used to it , and no one could beat us at getting through when we were set upon it . 
I was quick and bold and could always trust my driver Jerry was quick and patient at the same time , and could trust his horse , which was a great thing too . 
The streets were very full that day , but we got on pretty well as far as the bottom of Cheapside , where there was a block for three or four minutes . 
The young man put his head out and said anxiously , I think I had better get out and walk I shall never get there if this goes on . 
I'll do all that can be done , sir , said Jerry I think we shall be in time . 
This block up cannot last much longer , and your luggage is very heavy for you to carry , sir . 
Just then the cart in front of us began to move on , and then we had a good turn . 
At any rate , we whirled into the station with many more , just as the great clock pointed to eight minutes to twelve o'clock . 
Thank God ! we are in time , said the young man , and thank you , too , my friend , and your good horse . 
You have saved me more than money can ever pay for . 
Take this extra half crown . 
No , sir , no , thank you all the same so glad we hit the time , sir but don't stay now , sir , the bell is ringing . 
A good deal more than I generally get , said he , nodding slyly what he gave me will keep me in little comforts for several days . 
He's a humbug , said another preaching to us and then doing the same himself . 
Well , said Larry , you'll never be a rich man . 
Most likely not , said Jerry but I don't know that I shall be the less happy for that . 
As for you , Larry , you'll die poor you spend too much in whipcord . 
Well , I have not had good luck , said Larry , that's where it is . 
And you never will , said the governor . 
Good Luck is rather particular who she rides with , and mostly prefers those who have got common sense and a good heart at least that is my experience . 
Governor Gray turned round again to his newspaper , and the other men went to their cabs . 
The Sunday Cab One morning , as Jerry had just put me into the shafts and was fastening the traces , a gentleman walked into the yard . 
Your servant , sir , said Jerry . 
Good morning , Mr. Barker , said the gentleman . 
I should be glad to make some arrangements with you for taking Mrs. Briggs regularly to church on Sunday mornings . 
We go to the New Church now , and that is rather further than she can walk . 
A few years since the annual charge for a cab license was very much reduced , and the difference between the six and seven days' cabs was abolished . 
Oh ! said the other , I did not know yours was a six days' cab but of course it would be very easy to alter your license . 
I would see that you did not lose by it the fact is , Mrs. Briggs very much prefers you to drive her . 
So for the last five years I have only taken a six days' license , and I find it better all the way round . 
Oh , very well , said the gentleman . 
Don't trouble yourself , Mr. Barker , any further . 
I will inquire somewhere else , and he walked away . 
Well , says Jerry to me , we can't help it , Jack , old boy we must have our Sundays . 
Polly ! he shouted , Polly ! come here . 
She was there in a minute . 
What is it all about , Jerry ? Why , my dear , Mr. Briggs wants me to take Mrs. Briggs to church every Sunday morning . 
I say I have only a six days' license . 
He says , Get a seven days' license , and I'll make it worth your while and you know , Polly , they are very good customers to us . 
We have known what it was to have no Sundays , and now we know what it is to call them our own . 
God forbid that we should ever turn back to those times that's what I say , Jerry . 
And that is just what I told Mr. Briggs , my dear , said Jerry , and what I mean to stick to . 
I would not go back to the old times if I earned twice as much , so that is settled , little woman . 
Now , cheer up , and I'll be off to the stand . 
Three weeks had passed away after this conversation , and no order had come from Mrs. Briggs so there was nothing but taking jobs from the stand . 
Jerry took it to heart a good deal , for of course the work was harder for horse and man . 
But Polly would always cheer him up , and say , Never mind , father , never , mind . 
Do your best , And leave the rest , 'Twill all come right Some day or night . 
It soon became known that Jerry had lost his best customer , and for what reason . 
Most of the men said he was a fool , but two or three took his part . 
If workingmen don't stick to their Sunday , said Truman , they'll soon have none left it is every man's right and every beast's right . 
All very well for you religious chaps to talk so , said Larry but I'll turn a shilling when I can . 
I don't believe in religion , for I don't see that your religious people are any better than the rest . 
If they are not better , put in Jerry , it is because they are not religious . 
You might as well say that our country's laws are not good because some people break them . 
If some men are shams and humbugs , that does not make religion untrue . 
Real religion is the best and truest thing in the world , and the only thing that can make a man really happy or make the world we live in any better . 
But they have their privileges , as they call them , and I go without . 
I shall expect them to answer for my soul , if I can't get a chance of saving it . 
And what would all the good people do if they could not get to their favorite preachers ? said Larry . 
If a thing is right it can be done , and if it is wrong it can be done without and a good man will find a way . 
And that is as true for us cabmen as it is for the church goers . 
The Golden Rule Two or three weeks after this , as we came into the yard rather late in the evening , Polly came running across the road with the lantern . 
It has all come right , Jerry Mrs. Briggs sent her servant this afternoon to ask you to take her out to morrow at eleven o'clock . 
I said , Yes , I thought so , but we supposed she employed some one else now . 
Polly was almost out of breath , and Jerry broke out into a merry laugh . 
'Twill all come right some day or night' you were right , my dear you generally are . 
Run in and get the supper , and I'll have Jack's harness off and make him snug and happy in no time . 
We had all come home on the Saturday night very tired , and very glad to think that the next day would be all rest , but so it was not to be . 
On Sunday morning Jerry was cleaning me in the yard , when Polly stepped up to him , looking very full of something . 
What is it ? said Jerry . 
Tut , tut ! we'll see about that . 
It was not the money I was thinking about , but of losing our Sunday the horses are tired , and I am tired , too that's where it pinches . 
Away she went , and soon returned , saying that he could have the trap and welcome . 
All right , said he now put me up a bit of bread and cheese , and I'll be back in the afternoon as soon as I can . 
Dinah's family lived in a small farmhouse , up a green lane , close by a meadow with some fine shady trees there were two cows feeding in it . 
A young man asked Jerry to bring his trap into the meadow , and he would tie me up in the cowshed he wished he had a better stable to offer . 
Jerry thanked him kindly , but said as he had some dinner with him there was nothing he should like so well as walking about in the meadow . 
When he handed Dolly the flowers she jumped about for joy . 
Dolly and a Real Gentleman Winter came in early , with a great deal of cold and wet . 
There was snow , or sleet , or rain almost every day for weeks , changing only for keen driving winds or sharp frosts . 
The horses all felt it very much . 
When it is a dry cold a couple of good thick rugs will keep the warmth in us but when it is soaking rain they soon get wet through and are no good . 
When the streets were slippery with frost or snow that was the worst of all for us horses . 
If the roads are very bad indeed our shoes are roughed , but that makes us feel nervous at first . 
If she saw him she would run off at full speed and soon come back with something in a tin or basket , some hot soup or pudding Polly had ready . 
One cold windy day Dolly had brought Jerry a basin of something hot , and was standing by him while he ate it . 
He had scarcely begun when a gentleman , walking toward us very fast , held up his umbrella . 
So saying , he seated himself in the cab . 
Jerry thanked him kindly , and came back to Dolly . 
There , Dolly , that's a gentleman that's a real gentleman , Dolly he has got time and thought for the comfort of a poor cabman and a little girl . 
Jerry finished his soup , set the child across , and then took his orders to drive to Clapham Rise . 
Several times after that the same gentleman took our cab . 
I think he was very fond of dogs and horses , for whenever we took him to his own door two or three dogs would come bounding out to meet him . 
Sometimes he came round and patted me , saying in his quiet , pleasant way , This horse has got a good master , and he deserves it . 
It was a very rare thing for any one to notice the horse that had been working for him . 
The gentleman was not young , and there was a forward stoop in his shoulders as if he was always going at something . 
His voice was pleasant and kind any horse would trust that voice , though it was just as decided as everything else about him . 
One day he and another gentleman took our cab they stopped at a shop in R Street , and while his friend went in he stood at the door . 
Before they had gone many paces the carter came running out and caught them . 
He seemed furious at their having moved , and with whip and rein punished them brutally , even beating them about the head . 
What do you want with that ? growled the carter , as he cracked his whip and was moving on . 
A nod and a grim smile was the only answer he got . 
It is because people think only about their own business , and won't trouble themselves to stand up for the oppressed , nor bring the wrongdoer to light . 
I never see a wicked thing like this without doing what I can , and many a master has thanked me for letting him know how his horses have been used . 
I wish there were more gentlemen like you , sir , said Jerry , for they are wanted badly enough in this city . 
You know that's true , and if the horses don't work we must starve , and I and my children have known what that is before now . 
Some of the other drivers stood round nodding their heads and saying he was right . 
The man went on You that have your own horses and cabs , or drive for good masters , have a chance of getting on and a chance of doing right I haven't . 
We can't charge more than sixpence a mile after the first , within the four mile radius . 
This very morning I had to go a clear six miles and only took three shillings . 
I could not get a return fare , and had to come all the way back there's twelve miles for the horse and three shillings for me . 
That was sixpence , and the fare one and sixpence then I got a return for a shilling . 
I don't ill use my horse for the sake of it none of you can say I do . 
There's wrong lays somewhere never a day's rest , never a quiet hour with the wife and children . 
I often feel like an old man , though I'm only forty five . 
Of course , some of 'em tip us pretty handsome now and then , or else we could not live but you can't depend upon that . 
The governor had stood with both his hands in his pockets now he took his handkerchief out of his hat and wiped his forehead . 
Sometimes a kind word is all we can give 'em , poor brutes , and 'tis wonderful what they do understand . 
A few mornings after this talk a new man came on the stand with Sam's cab . 
Halloo ! said one , what's up with Seedy Sam ? He's ill in bed , said the man he was taken last night in the yard , and could scarcely crawl home . 
His wife sent a boy this morning to say his father was in a high fever and could not get out , so I'm here instead . 
The next morning the same man came again . 
How is Sam ? inquired the governor . 
He's gone , said the man . 
I never had a Sunday's rest , these were his last words . 
No one spoke for a while , and then the governor said , I'll tell you what , mates , this is a warning for us . 
Poor Ginger One day , while our cab and many others were waiting outside one of the parks where music was playing , a shabby old cab drove up beside ours . 
Our drivers were standing together a little way off , so I sidled up to her a step or two , that we might have a little quiet talk . 
It was a sad tale that she had to tell . 
After a twelvemonth's run off at Earlshall , she was considered to be fit for work again , and was sold to a gentleman . 
For a little while she got on very well , but after a longer gallop than usual the old strain returned , and after being rested and doctored she was again sold . 
In this way she changed hands several times , but always getting lower down . 
And so at last , said she , I was bought by a man who keeps a number of cabs and horses , and lets them out . 
You look well off , and I am glad of it , but I could not tell you what my life has been . 
I said , You used to stand up for yourself if you were ill used . 
I wish the end was come , I wish I was dead . 
I was very much troubled , and I put my nose up to hers , but I could say nothing to comfort her . 
I think she was pleased to see me , for she said , You are the only friend I ever had . 
Just then her driver came up , and with a tug at her mouth backed her out of the line and drove off , leaving me very sad indeed . 
A short time after this a cart with a dead horse in it passed our cab stand . 
It was a chestnut horse with a long , thin neck . 
I saw a white streak down the forehead . 
I believe it was Ginger I hoped it was , for then her troubles would be over . 
Oh ! if men were more merciful they would shoot us before we came to such misery . 
The Butcher I saw a great deal of trouble among the horses in London , and much of it might have been prevented by a little common sense . 
It often went to my heart to see how the little ponies were used , straining along with heavy loads or staggering under heavy blows from some low , cruel boy . 
He was doing his best to pull a heavy cart , while a strong rough boy was cutting him under the belly with his whip and chucking cruelly at his little mouth . 
There was a butcher's shop next door , and as we were standing a butcher's cart came dashing up at a great pace . 
The horse was hot and much exhausted he hung his head down , while his heaving sides and trembling legs showed how hard he had been driven . 
The lad jumped out of the cart and was getting the basket when the master came out of the shop much displeased . 
After looking at the horse he turned angrily to the lad . 
During this speech the boy had stood by , sullen and dogged , but when his father ceased he broke out angrily . 
It wasn't his fault , and he wouldn't take the blame he was only going by orders all the time . 
With that he went in , and the horse was led away . 
But all boys are not cruel . 
It may be hard work sometimes , but a friend's hand and voice make it easy . 
Jerry liked the boy , and called him Prince Charlie , for he said he would make a king of drivers some day . 
There was an old man , too , who used to come up our street with a little coal cart he wore a coal heaver's hat , and looked rough and black . 
The old man's cry could be heard up the street long before he came near . 
I never knew what he said , but the children called him Old Ba a ar Hoo , for it sounded like that . 
Polly took her coal of him , and was very friendly , and Jerry said it was a comfort to think how happy an old horse might be in a poor place . 
The Election As we came into the yard one afternoon Polly came out . 
Jerry ! I've had Mr. B here asking about your vote , and he wants to hire your cab for the election he will call for an answer . 
Well , Polly , you may say that my cab will be otherwise engaged . 
No , I shan't do it . 
I suppose you'll vote for the gentleman ? He said he was of your politics . 
So he is in some things , but I shall not vote for him , Polly you know what his trade is ? Yes . 
I dare say they'll be angry , but every man must do what he thinks to be the best for his country . 
I have given them a thrashing they will remember a set of cowardly , rascally orange' blackguards . 
Jerry kissed the child and said , Run in to mother , my pet , and tell her I think you had better stay at home to day and help her . 
Even women and children are ready to quarrel for the sake of a color , and not one in ten of them knows what it is about . 
Why , father , I thought blue was for Liberty . 
No , Harry , I am serious , and I am ashamed to see how men go on who ought to know better . 
An election is a very serious thing at least it ought to be , and every man ought to vote according to his conscience , and let his neighbor do the same . 
A Friend in Need The election day came at last there was no lack of work for Jerry and me . 
I found I had a good feed of crushed oats wetted up with a little bran this would be a treat any day , but very refreshing then . 
It was the first election I had seen , and I don't want to be in another , though I have heard things are better now . 
Jerry and I had not eaten many mouthfuls before a poor young woman , carrying a heavy child , came along the street . 
She was looking this way and that way , and seemed quite bewildered . 
Presently she made her way up to Jerry and asked if he could tell her the way to St . 
Thomas' Hospital , and how far it was to get there . 
She had come from the country that morning , she said , in a market cart she did not know about the election , and was quite a stranger in London . 
She had got an order for the hospital for her little boy . 
The child was crying with a feeble , pining cry . 
Yes , bless him , he is but I am strong , thank God , and if I knew the way I think I should get on somehow please tell me the way . 
You can't do it , said Jerry , you might be knocked down and the child be run over . 
Now look here , just get into this cab , and I'll drive you safe to the hospital . 
Don't you see the rain is coming on ? No , sir , no I can't do that , thank you , I have only just money enough to get back with . 
Please tell me the way . 
I'd be ashamed of myself to let a woman and a sick child run a risk like that . 
Heaven bless you ! said the woman , and burst into tears . 
There , there , cheer up , my dear , I'll soon take you there come , let me put you inside . 
Jerry looked as stern as a policeman . 
This cab is already engaged , gentlemen , by that lady . 
Lady ! said one of them oh ! she can wait our business is very important , besides we were in first , it is our right , and we shall stay in . 
A droll smile came over Jerry's face as he shut the door upon them . 
All right , gentlemen , pray stay in as long as it suits you I can wait while you rest yourselves . 
And turning his back upon them he walked up to the young woman , who was standing near me . 
They'll soon be gone , he said , laughing don't trouble yourself , my dear . 
And they soon were gone , for when they understood Jerry's dodge they got out , calling him all sorts of bad names and blustering about his number and getting a summons . 
After this little stoppage we were soon on our way to the hospital , going as much as possible through by streets . 
Jerry rung the great bell and helped the young woman out . 
Thank you a thousand times , she said I could never have got here alone . 
You're kindly welcome , and I hope the dear child will soon be better . 
He watched her go in at the door , and gently he said to himself , Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these . 
Then he patted my neck , which was always his way when anything pleased him . 
I shall be proud to serve you , ma'am I am right glad I happened to be here . 
We got to the station in good time , and being under shelter the lady stood a good while talking to Jerry . 
I was brought up to it , and I am afraid I should not do so well at anything else . 
Then sending some kind messages to Mary she put something into his hand , saying , There is five shillings each for the two children Mary will know how to spend it . 
Jerry thanked her and seemed much pleased , and turning out of the station we at last reached home , and I , at least , was tired . 
Old Captain and His Successor Captain and I were great friends . 
He was a noble old fellow , and he was very good company . 
I never thought that he would have to leave his home and go down the hill but his turn came , and this was how it happened . 
I was not there , but I heard all about it . 
One young girl was knocked down and run over , and the next moment they dashed up against our cab both the wheels were torn off and the cab was thrown over . 
Captain was dragged down , the shafts splintered , and one of them ran into his side . 
Jerry , too , was thrown , but was only bruised nobody could tell how he escaped he always said 'twas a miracle . 
When poor Captain was got up he was found to be very much cut and knocked about . 
Jerry led him home gently , and a sad sight it was to see the blood soaking into his white coat and dropping from his side and shoulder . 
The farrier and Jerry did the best they could to ease his pain and make him comfortable . 
The fly had to be mended , and for several days I did not go out , and Jerry earned nothing . 
The first time we went to the stand after the accident the governor came up to hear how Captain was . 
He'll never get over it , said Jerry , at least not for my work , so the farrier said this morning . 
He says he may do for carting , and that sort of work . 
It has put me out very much . 
Carting , indeed ! I've seen what horses come to at that work round London . 
I only wish all the drunkards could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of sober people . 
Well , said Jerry , why don't you cut with it , governor ? You are too good a man to be the slave of such a thing . 
I've a great mind to try at it , said Grant , for 'tis a poor thing not to be one's own master . 
I know there's two or three would like to keep out of that tavern if they could . 
The day after this was decided Harry took me to the forge for some new shoes when I returned Captain was gone . 
I and the family all felt it very much . 
Jerry had now to look out for another horse , and he soon heard of one through an acquaintance who was under groom in a nobleman's stables . 
I can do with high spirits , said Jerry , if a horse is not vicious or hard mouthed . 
It is my belief that it made the horse mad , being tender in the mouth and so full of spirit . 
Likely enough I'll come and see him , said Jerry . 
I gave him a friendly greeting by way of good fellowship , but did not ask him any questions . 
The first night he was very restless . 
Instead of lying down , he kept jerking his halter rope up and down through the ring , and knocking the block about against the manger till I could not sleep . 
However , the next day , after five or six hours in the cab , he came in quiet and sensible . 
In fact , he settled in well , and Jerry liked him very much . 
Jerry's New Year For some people Christmas and the New Year are very merry times but for cabmen and cabmen's horses it is no holiday , though it may be a harvest . 
There are so many parties , balls , and places of amusement open that the work is hard and often late . 
Sometimes driver and horse have to wait for hours in the rain or frost , shivering with the cold , while the merry people within are dancing away to the music . 
I wonder if the beautiful ladies ever think of the weary cabman waiting on his box , and his patient beast standing , till his legs get stiff with cold . 
I had now most of the evening work , as I was well accustomed to standing , and Jerry was also more afraid of Hotspur taking cold . 
On the evening of the New Year we had to take two gentlemen to a house in one of the West End Squares . 
As the clock struck eleven we were at the door , for Jerry was always punctual . 
The clock chimed the quarters , one , two , three , and then struck twelve , but the door did not open . 
Still the clock chimed the quarters , and no one came . 
At half past twelve he rang the bell and asked the servant if he would be wanted that night . 
My legs were numb with cold , and I thought I should have stumbled . 
At last we got home he could hardly speak , and his cough was dreadful . 
Polly asked no questions , but opened the door and held the lantern for him . 
Can't I do something ? she said . 
Yes get Jack something warm , and then boil me some gruel . 
Polly brought me a warm mash that made me comfortable , and then they locked the door . 
It was late the next morning before any one came , and then it was only Harry . 
He cleaned us and fed us , and swept out the stalls , then he put the straw back again as if it was Sunday . 
He was very still , and neither whistled nor sang . 
So two days passed , and there was great trouble indoors . 
We only saw Harry , and sometimes Dolly . 
I think she came for company , for Polly was always with Jerry , and he had to be kept very quiet . 
On the third day , while Harry was in the stable , a tap came at the door , and Governor Grant came in . 
I wouldn't go to the house , my boy , he said , but I want to know how your father is . 
He is very bad , said Harry , he can't be much worse they call it bronchitis' the doctor thinks it will turn one way or another to night . 
Yes , said Harry quickly , and the doctor said that father had a better chance than most men , because he didn't drink . 
If there's any rule that good men should get over these things , I'm sure he will , my boy he's the best man I know . 
I'll look in early to morrow . 
Early next morning he was there . 
Father is better , said Harry . 
Mother hopes he will get over it . 
It is like that now , said Harry . 
I have kept him short of corn , but he's so full of spirit I don't know what to do with him . 
Just so , said Grant . 
At noon I think he went and saw Polly , for he and Harry came to the stable together , harnessed Hotspur , and took him out . 
Jerry grew better steadily , but the doctor said that he must never go back to the cab work again if he wished to be an old man . 
The children had many consultations together about what father and mother would do , and how they could help to earn money . 
One afternoon Hotspur was brought in very wet and dirty . 
The streets are nothing but slush , said the governor it will give you a good warming , my boy , to get him clean and dry . 
All right , governor , said Harry , I shall not leave him till he is you know I have been trained by my father . 
I wish all the boys had been trained like you , said the governor . 
While Harry was sponging off the mud from Hotspur's body and legs Dolly came in , looking very full of something . 
Who lives at Fairstowe , Harry ? Mother has got a letter from Fairstowe she seemed so glad , and ran upstairs to father with it . 
Of course , I know all about her . 
I wonder what she is writing to mother about . 
Mother wrote to her last week , said Harry you know she told father if ever he gave up the cab work she would like to know . 
I wonder what she says run in and see , Dolly . 
Harry scrubbed away at Hotspur with a huish ! huish ! like any old hostler . 
In a few minutes Dolly came dancing into the stable . 
Oh ! Harry , there never was anything so beautiful Mrs. Fowler says we are all to go and live near her . 
I'll be a groom or a gardener . 
It was quickly settled that as soon as Jerry was well enough they should remove to the country , and that the cab and horses should be sold as soon as possible . 
This was heavy news for me , for I was not young now , and could not look for any improvement in my condition . 
The day came for going away . 
Jerry had not been allowed to go out yet , and I never saw him after that New Year's eve . 
Polly and the children came to bid me good by . 
Dolly was crying and kissed me too . 
Harry stroked me a great deal , but said nothing , only he seemed very sad , and so I was led away to my new place . 
Part IV Jakes and the Lady I was sold to a corn dealer and baker , whom Jerry knew , and with him he thought I should have good food and fair work . 
My carter , whose name was Jakes , often said it was more than I ought to take , but the other always overruled him . 
'Twas no use going twice when once would do , and he chose to get business forward . 
One day I was loaded more than usual , and part of the road was a steep uphill . 
I used all my strength , but I could not get on , and was obliged continually to stop . 
This did not please my driver , and he laid his whip on badly . 
Get on , you lazy fellow , he said , or I'll make you . 
Again I started the heavy load , and struggled on a few yards again the whip came down , and again I struggled forward . 
The pain of that great cart whip was sharp , but my mind was hurt quite as much as my poor sides . 
To be punished and abused when I was doing my very best was so hard it took the heart out of me . 
If doing his best won't get this load up he must do something more than his best that's all I know , ma'am , said Jakes . 
But is it not a heavy load ? she said . 
He was raising the whip again , when the lady said Pray , stop I think I can help you if you will let me . 
Well , well , said Jakes , with a short laugh , anything to please a lady , of course . 
How far would you wish it down , ma'am ? Quite down , give him his head altogether . 
The rein was taken off , and in a moment I put my head down to my very knees . 
What a comfort it was ! Then I tossed it up and down several times to get the aching stiffness out of my neck . 
The lady had walked along the footpath , and now came across into the road . 
She stroked and patted my neck , as I had not been patted for many a long day . 
You see he was quite willing when you gave him the chance I am sure he is a fine tempered creature , and I dare say has known better days . 
You won't put that rein on again , will you ? for he was just going to hitch it up on the old plan . 
But I must not detain you now I thank you for trying my plan with your good horse , and I am sure you will find it far better than the whip . 
Good day , and with another soft pat on my neck she stepped lightly across the path , and I saw her no more . 
I may as well mention here what I suffered at this time from another cause . 
Several times I stumbled over the threshold , and could scarcely see where I was going . 
However , I escaped without any permanent injury to my sight , and was sold to a large cab owner . 
His name was Nicholas Skinner , and I believe he was the man that poor Seedy Sam drove for . 
Skinner had a low set of cabs and a low set of drivers he was hard on the men , and the men were hard on the horses . 
In this place we had no Sunday rest , and it was in the heat of summer . 
I went on the stand at eight in the morning , and had done a good share of work , when we had to take a fare to the railway . 
A long train was just expected in , so my driver pulled up at the back of some of the outside cabs to take the chance of a return fare . 
It was a very heavy train , and as all the cabs were soon engaged ours was called for . 
There was a party of four a noisy , blustering man with a lady , a little boy and a young girl , and a great deal of luggage . 
The lady and the boy got into the cab , and while the man ordered about the luggage the young girl came and looked at me . 
Papa , she said , I am sure this poor horse cannot take us and all our luggage so far , he is so very weak and worn up . 
Oh ! he's all right , miss , said my driver , he's strong enough . 
The porter , who was pulling about some heavy boxes , suggested to the gentleman , as there was so much luggage , whether he would not take a second cab . 
Can your horse do it , or can't he ? said the blustering man . 
Papa , papa , do take a second cab , said the young girl in a beseeching tone . 
I am sure we are wrong , I am sure it is very cruel . 
At last all was ready , and with his usual jerk at the rein and slash of the whip he drove out of the station . 
The load was very heavy and I had had neither food nor rest since morning but I did my best , as I always had done , in spite of cruelty and injustice . 
I got along fairly till we came to Ludgate Hill but there the heavy load and my own exhaustion were too much . 
I lay perfectly still indeed , I had no power to move , and I thought now I was going to die . 
I heard a sort of confusion round me , loud , angry voices , and the getting down of the luggage , but it was all like a dream . 
I thought I heard that sweet , pitiful voice saying , Oh ! that poor horse ! it is all our fault . 
Some one came and loosened the throat strap of my bridle , and undid the traces which kept the collar so tight upon me . 
Some one said , He's dead , he'll never get up again . 
Then I could hear a policeman giving orders , but I did not even open my eyes I could only draw a gasping breath now and then . 
Some cold water was thrown over my head , and some cordial was poured into my mouth , and something was covered over me . 
I cannot tell how long I lay there , but I found my life coming back , and a kind voiced man was patting me and encouraging me to rise . 
After some more cordial had been given me , and after one or two attempts , I staggered to my feet , and was gently led to some stables which were close by . 
Here I was put into a well littered stall , and some warm gruel was brought to me , which I drank thankfully . 
In the evening I was sufficiently recovered to be led back to Skinner's stables , where I think they did the best for me they could . 
In the morning Skinner came with a farrier to look at me . 
Then he must just go to the dogs , said Skinner . 
When the twelfth day after the accident came , I was taken to the sale , a few miles out of London . 
I felt that any change from my present place must be an improvement , so I held up my head , and hoped for the best . 
The buyers and sellers , too , many of them , looked not much better off than the poor beasts they were bargaining about . 
There were poor old men , trying to get a horse or a pony for a few pounds , that might drag about some little wood or coal cart . 
There were poor men trying to sell a worn out beast for two or three pounds , rather than have the greater loss of killing him . 
When he came up to me and my companions he stood still and gave a pitiful look round upon us . 
I saw his eye rest on me I had still a good mane and tail , which did something for my appearance . 
I pricked my ears and looked at him . 
There's a horse , Willie , that has known better days . 
He put out his hand and gave me a kind pat on the neck . 
I put out my nose in answer to his kindness the boy stroked my face . 
Poor old fellow ! see , grandpapa , how well he understands kindness . 
Well , grandpapa , I don't believe that this one is old look at his mane and tail . 
I wish you would look into his mouth , and then you could tell though he is so very thin , his eyes are not sunk like some old horses' . 
Bless the boy ! he is as horsey as his old grandfather . 
But do look at his mouth , grandpapa , and ask the price I am sure he would grow young in our meadows . 
The man who had brought me for sale now put in his word . 
The young gentleman's a real knowing one , sir . 
I'll be bound he'd be worth twenty pounds next spring . 
The old gentleman laughed , and the little boy looked up eagerly . 
Oh , grandpapa , did you not say the colt sold for five pounds more than you expected ? You would not be poorer if you did buy this one . 
The farmer slowly felt my legs , which were much swelled and strained then he looked at my mouth . 
What is the lowest you will take for him ? said the farmer as I came back . 
Five pounds , sir that was the lowest price my master set . 
No , sir , I can take him for you to the inn , if you please . 
Do so , I am now going there . 
They walked forward , and I was led behind . 
The boy could hardly control his delight , and the old gentleman seemed to enjoy his pleasure . 
The boy was proud of his charge , and undertook it in all seriousness . 
He always came with kind words and caresses , and of course I grew very fond of him . 
He called me Old Crony , as I used to come to him in the field and follow him about . 
Sometimes he brought his grandfather , who always looked closely at my legs . 
This is our point , Willie , he would say but he is improving so steadily that I think we shall see a change for the better in the spring . 
The perfect rest , the good food , the soft turf , and gentle exercise , soon began to tell on my condition and my spirits . 
During the winter my legs improved so much that I began to feel quite young again . 
The spring came round , and one day in March Mr. Thoroughgood determined that he would try me in the phaeton . 
I was well pleased , and he and Willie drove me a few miles . 
My legs were not stiff now , and I did the work with perfect ease . 
He's growing young , Willie we must give him a little gentle work now , and by mid summer he will be as good as Ladybird . 
He has a beautiful mouth and good paces they can't be better . 
I think the harness had an extra polish . 
Willie seemed half anxious , half merry , as he got into the chaise with his grandfather . 
If the ladies take to him , said the old gentleman , they'll be suited and he'll be suited . 
Willie rang the bell , and asked if Miss Blomefield or Miss Ellen was at home . 
So , while Willie stayed with me , Mr. Thoroughgood went into the house . 
They all came and looked at me and asked questions . 
The younger lady that was Miss Ellen took to me very much she said she was sure she should like me , I had such a good face . 
If you incline you can have him on trial , and then your coachman will see what he thinks of him . 
It was then arranged that I should be sent for the next day . 
In the morning a smart looking young man came for me . 
Handsome is that handsome does' , said my master you are only taking him on trial , and I am sure you will do fairly by him , young man . 
If he is not as safe as any horse you ever drove send him back . 
I was led to my new home , placed in a comfortable stable , fed , and left to myself . 
The next day , when the groom was cleaning my face , he said That is just like the star that Black Beauty' had he is much the same height , too . 
I wonder where he is now . 
A little further on he came to the place in my neck where I was bled and where a little knot was left in the skin . 
He almost started , and began to look me over carefully , talking to himself . 
I put my nose up to him , and tried to say that we were friends . 
I never saw a man so pleased . 
I wish John Manly was here to see you . 
In the afternoon I was put into a low park chair and brought to the door . 
Miss Ellen was going to try me , and Green went with her . 
I soon found that she was a good driver , and she seemed pleased with my paces . 
I heard Joe telling her about me , and that he was sure I was Squire Gordon's old Black Beauty . 
When we returned the other sisters came out to hear how I had behaved myself . 
She told them what she had just heard , and said I shall certainly write to Mrs. Gordon , and tell her that her favorite horse has come to us . 
After this it was quite decided to keep me and call me by my old name of Black Beauty . 
I have now lived in this happy place a whole year . 
Joe is the best and kindest of grooms . 
My work is easy and pleasant , and I feel my strength and spirits all coming back again . 
Mr. Thoroughgood said to Joe the other day In your place he will last till he is twenty years old perhaps more . 
Willie always speaks to me when he can , and treats me as his special friend . 
My ladies have promised that I shall never be sold , and so I have nothing to fear and here my story ends . 
