Indeed , I think you will find this story quite different from the other histories of Oz , but I hope you will not like it the less on that account . 
I have an idea that about the time you are reading this story of Rinkitink I shall be writing that story of Adventures in Oz . 
Don't fail to write me often and give me your advice and suggestions , which I always appreciate . 
I get a good many letters from my readers , but every one is a joy to me and I answer them as soon as I can find time to do so . 
OZCOT at HOLLYWOOD in CALIFORNIA , . 
The Kingdom of Rinkitink isn't very big and lies close to the ocean , all the houses and the King's palace being built near the shore . 
The people live much upon the water , boating and fishing , and the wealth of Rinkitink is gained from trading along the coast and with the islands nearest it . 
Four days' journey by boat to the north of Rinkitink is the Island of Pingaree , and as our story begins here I must tell you something about this island . 
These houses were scattered everywhere throughout the island , so that there was no town or city , unless the whole island might be called a city . 
At the big end of the island , at the north , stood the royal palace of King Kitticut , the lord and ruler of Pingaree . 
It was a beautiful palace , built entirely of snow white marble and capped by domes of burnished gold , for the King was exceedingly wealthy . 
All along the coast of Pingaree were found the largest and finest pearls in the whole world . 
These pearls grew within the shells of big oysters , and the people raked the oysters from their watery beds , sought out the milky pearls and carried them dutifully to their King . 
The Pingaree people never visited any other land but that of Rinkitink , and so there were few other lands that knew there was such an island . 
To the southwest was an island called the Isle of Phreex , where the inhabitants had no use for pearls . 
And far north of Pingaree six days' journey by boat , it was said were twin islands named Regos and Coregos , inhabited by a fierce and warlike people . 
Many years before this story really begins , ten big boatloads of those fierce warriors of Regos and Coregos visited Pingaree , landing suddenly upon the north end of the island . 
This defeat of the enemy seemed the more wonderful because the pearl fishers of Pingaree were mild and peaceful in disposition and seldom quarreled even among themselves . 
Their only weapons were their oyster rakes yet the fact remains that they drove their fierce enemies from Regos and Coregos from their shores . 
He feared they might send a more numerous army to his island , both for conquest and revenge , in which case there could be little hope of successfully opposing them . 
He was a good King and lived very contentedly in his fine palace , with his fair Queen Garee and their one child , Prince Inga . 
The wealth of Pingaree increased year by year and the happiness of the people increased , too . 
Perhaps there was no place , outside the Land of Oz , where contentment and peace were more manifest than on this pretty island , hidden in the besom of the Nonestic Ocean . 
Had these conditions remained undisturbed , there would have been no need to speak of Pingaree in this story . 
He had a little boat of his own and a rake for dragging up the oysters and he was very proud indeed when he could carry a big white pearl to his father . 
Being a man of intelligence , he was able to teach his son something of reading , writing and arithmetic . 
There , with no one to disturb him , he would pore over the sheepskin on which were written the queer characters of the Pingarese language . 
He taught the boy the needs of the people and how to rule them justly , for some day he knew that Inga would be King in his place . 
My constant fear is that they will send a fleet of boats to search for those of their race whom we defeated many years ago , and whom the sea afterwards destroyed . 
Are we , then , less powerful than in my grandfather's day ? asked Prince Inga . 
The King shook his head thoughtfully . 
It is not that , said he . 
That you may fully understand that marvelous battle , I must confide to , you a great secret . 
I have in my possession three Magic Talismans , which I have ever guarded with utmost care , keeping the knowledge of their existence from anyone else . 
But , lest I should die , and the secret be lost , I have decided to tell you what these talismans are and where they are hidden . 
Come with me , my son . 
He led the way through the rooms of the palace until they came to the great banquet hall . 
There , stopping in the center of the room , he stooped down and touched a hidden spring in the tiled floor . 
At once one of the tiles sank downward and the King reached within the cavity and drew out a silken bag . 
This bag he proceeded to open , showing Inga that it contained three great pearls , each one as big around as a marble . 
One had a blue tint and one was of a delicate rose color , but the third was pure white . 
These three pearls , said the King , speaking in a solemn , impressive voice , are the most wonderful the world has ever known . 
They were gifts to one of my ancestors from the Mermaid Queen , a powerful fairy whom he once had the good fortune to rescue from her enemies . 
In gratitude for this favor she presented him with these pearls . 
Each of the three possesses an astonishing power , and whoever is their owner may count himself a fortunate man . 
This one having the blue tint will give to the person who carries it a strength so great that no power can resist him . 
The one with the pink glow will protect its owner from all dangers that may threaten him , no matter from what source they may come . 
The third pearl this one of pure white can speak , and its words are always wise and helpful . 
What is this , my father ! exclaimed the Prince , amazed do you tell me that a pearl can speak ? It sounds impossible . 
Your doubt is due to your ignorance of fairy powers , returned the King , gravely . 
Listen , my son , and you will know that I speak the truth . 
He held the white pearl to Inga's ear and the Prince heard a small voice say distinctly Your father is right . 
Never question the truth of what you fail to understand , for the world is filled with wonders . 
I crave your pardon , dear father , said the Prince , for clearly I heard the pearl speak , and its words were full of wisdom . 
The powers of the other pearls are even greater , resumed the King . 
Were I poor in all else , these gems would make me richer than any other monarch the world holds . 
I believe that , replied Inga , looking at the beautiful pearls with much awe . 
Therefore , I keep them safely hidden in this recess . 
My only danger lies in the chance that my watchmen might fail to discover the approach of our enemies and allow the warrior invaders to seize me before I could secure the pearls . 
I should , in that case , be quite powerless to resist . 
Often have I suspected that the destroying storm was caused by the fairy mermaids , but that is a matter of which I have no proof . 
I have often wondered how we managed to win that battle , remarked Inga thoughtfully . 
But the pearls will assist us in case the warriors come again , will they not ? They are as powerful as ever , declared the King . 
Really , my son , I have little to fear from any foe . 
But lest I die and the secret be lost to the next King , I have now given it into your keeping . 
Remember that these pearls are the rightful heritage of all Kings of Pingaree . 
If at any time I should be taken from you , Inga , guard this treasure well and do not forget where it is hidden . 
I shall not forget , said Inga . 
Then the King returned the pearls to their hiding place and the boy went to his own room to ponder upon the wonderful secret his father had that day confided to his care . 
Many of the men of Pingaree assembled there also , and Prince Inga followed his father . 
Arriving at the water's edge , they all stood gazing eagerly at the oncoming boat . 
It was quite a big boat , they observed , and covered with a canopy of purple silk , embroidered with gold . 
It was rowed by twenty men , ten on each side . 
At the opposite end of the boat stood an oddly shaped cage , and several large boxes of sandalwood were piled near the center of the craft . 
His face was round as an apple and nearly as rosy . 
When he stopped bowing he smiled in such a sweet and happy way that Inga thought he must be a very jolly fellow . 
The prow of the boat grounded on the beach , stopping its speed so suddenly that the little man was caught unawares and nearly toppled headlong into the sea . 
But he managed to catch hold of the chair with one hand and the hair of one of his rowers with the other , and so steadied himself . 
The fat man glanced at all the sober faces before him and burst into a rollicking laugh . 
Perhaps I should say it was half laughter and half a chuckle of merriment , for the sounds he emitted were quaint and droll and tempted every hearer to laugh with him . 
Heh , heh ho , ho , ho ! he roared . 
Didn't expect me , I see . 
Keek eek eek eek ! This is funny it's really funny . 
Didn't know I was coming , did you ? Hoo , hoo , hoo , hoo ! This is certainly amusing . 
But I'm here , just the same . 
Hush up ! said a deep , growling voice . 
Everyone looked to see where this voice came from but none could guess who had uttered the words of rebuke . 
The rowers of the boat were all solemn and silent and certainly no one on the shore had spoken . 
But the little man did not seem astonished in the least , or even annoyed . 
King Kitticut now addressed the stranger , saying courteously You are welcome to the Kingdom of Pingaree . 
Perhaps you will deign to come ashore and at your convenience inform us whom we have the honor of receiving as a guest . 
Thanks I will , returned the little fat man , waddling from his place in the boat and stepping , with some difficulty , upon the sandy beach . 
I have long wished to visit this island and so , as I said before , here I am ! I am pleased to welcome you , said King Kitticut . 
But what else could I do ? My subjects would not allow me to go anywhere at all , if they knew it . 
So I just ran away . 
Ran away ! exclaimed King Kitticut in surprise . 
They're afraid I'll get into mischief . 
Keek eek eek Oh , dear me ! Don't trust their own King . 
Funny , isn't it ? No harm can come to you on this island , said Kitticut , pretending not to notice the odd ways of his guest . 
And , whenever it pleases you to return to your own country , I will send with you a fitting escort of my own people . 
In the meantime , pray accompany me to my palace , where everything shall be done to make you comfortable and happy . 
Much obliged , answered Rinkitink , tipping his white cap over his left ear and heartily shaking the hand of his brother monarch . 
I'm sure you can make me comfortable if you've plenty to eat . 
And as for being happy ha , ha , ha , ha ! why , that's my trouble . 
But stop ! I've brought you some presents in those boxes . 
Please order your men to carry them up to the palace . 
Certainly , answered King Kitticut , well pleased , and at once he gave his men the proper orders . 
And , by the way , continued the fat little King , let them also take my goat from his cage . 
A goat ! exclaimed the King of Pingaree . 
There ! I told you so ! cried the voice angrily . 
You've rubbed the skin off my left knee . 
Why on earth didn't you handle me gently ? There , there , Bilbil , said King Rinkitink soothingly don't scold , my boy . 
Remember that these are strangers , and we their guests . 
Then he turned to Kitticut and remarked You have no talking goats on your island , I suppose . 
We have no goats at all , replied the King nor have we any animals , of any sort , who are able to talk . 
I wish my animal couldn't talk , either , said Rinkitink , winking comically at Inga and then looking toward the cage . 
He is very cross at times , and indulges in language that is not respectful . 
Why do you not ride a horse ? asked King Kitticut . 
I can't climb upon his back , being rather stout that's why . 
He now opened the cage and the goat deliberately walked out and looked about him in a sulky manner . 
One of the rowers brought from the boat a saddle made of red velvet and beautifully embroidered with silver thistles , which he fastened upon the goat's back . 
The fat King put his leg over the saddle and seated himself comfortably , saying Lead on , my noble host , and we will follow . 
What ! Up that steep hill ? cried the goat . 
Get off my back at once , Rinkitink , or I won't budge a step . 
But consider , Bilbil , remonstrated the King . 
How am I to get up that hill unless I ride ? Walk ! growled Bilbil . 
Really , Bilbil , I'm surprised at you . 
The boat carried you to this shore , because you can't swim , and now you must carry me up the hill , because I can't climb . 
Eh , Bilbil , isn't that reasonable ? Well , well , well , said the goat , surlily , keep quiet and I'll carry you . 
But you make me very tired , Rinkitink , with your ceaseless chatter . 
After making this protest Bilbil began walking up the hill , carrying the fat King upon his back with no difficulty whatever . 
King Kitticut walked beside the goat and the Prince followed after , the men coming last with the boxes of sandalwood . 
When they neared the palace , the Queen and her maidens came out to meet them and the royal guest was escorted in state to the splendid throne room of the palace . 
Here the boxes were opened and King Rinkitink displayed all the beautiful silks and laces and jewelry with which they were filled . 
Every one of the courtiers and ladies received a handsome present , and the King and Queen had many rich gifts and Inga not a few . 
Thus the time passed pleasantly until the Chamberlain announced that dinner was served . 
You do us great honor , said King Kitticut , with a polite bow . 
Not at all not at all , my brother . 
So I have wished for many years to come here to see you , but my people said 'No ! Stay at home and behave yourself , or we'll know the reason why . 
Will they not miss Your Majesty from your palace at Gilgad ? inquired Kitticut . 
I think not , answered Rinkitink . 
They're awfully afraid of my royal displeasure , although not a bit afraid of me . 
Then I put the parchment in my pocket and escaped through the back door to my boat and here I am . 
Oh , it's a fine essay , said Rinkitink , and beautifully written with a goosequill . 
Listen to this You'll enjoy it tee , hee , hee ! enjoy it . 
How's that , eh ? Fine thought , what ? 'Therefore , in order to be Good , you must avoid those Things which are Evil . 
With this , Rinkitink lay back in his chair and chuckled his queer chuckle until he coughed , and coughed until he choked and choked until he sneezed . 
And he wrinkled his face in such a jolly , droll way that few could keep from laughing with him , and even the good Queen was forced to titter behind her fan . 
When Rinkitink had recovered from his fit of laughter and had wiped his eyes upon a fine lace handkerchief , Prince Inga said to him The parchment speaks truly . 
Yes , it is true beyond doubt , answered Rinkitink , and if I could persuade Bilbil to read it he would be a much better goat than he is now . 
Here is another selection 'To avoid saying Unpleasant Things , always Speak Agreeably . 
That would hit Bilbil , to a dot . 
And here is one that applies to you , my Prince 'Good Children are seldom punished , for the reason that they deserve no punishment . 
Now , I think that is neatly put , and shows the author to be a deep thinker . 
Haw hoo ho ! keek eek ! 'Other people will find it more pleasant ! hee , hee , heek , keek ! 'more pleasant . 
Dear me dear me ! Therein lies a noble incentive to be good , and whenever I get time I'm surely going to try it . 
Then he wiped his eyes again with the lace handkerchief and , suddenly remembering his dinner , seized his knife and fork and began eating . 
Once in a while he would read from his scroll . 
For , said he , whenever I return home , my subjects will be anxious to know if I have learned 'How to be Good , and I must not disappoint them . 
The twenty rowers lived on the small end of the island , with the pearl fishers , and seemed not to care whether they ever returned to the Kingdom of Rinkitink or not . 
Bilbil the goat wandered over the grassy slopes , or among the trees , and passed his days exactly as he pleased . 
His master seldom cared to ride him . 
Bilbil was a rare curiosity to the islanders , but since there was little pleasure in talking with the goat they kept away from him . 
This pleased the creature , who seemed well satisfied to be left to his own devices . 
Once Prince Inga , wishing to be courteous , walked up to the goat and said Good morning , Bilbil . 
It isn't a good morning , answered Bilbil grumpily . 
It is cloudy and damp , and looks like rain . 
I hope you are contented in our kingdom , continued the boy , politely ignoring the other's harsh words . 
I'm not , said Bilbil . 
I'm never contented so it doesn't matter to me whether I'm in your kingdom or in some other kingdom . 
Go away will you ? Certainly , answered the Prince , and after this rebuff he did not again try to make friends with Bilbil . 
You must not think that Inga was a molly coddle or a prig , because he was so solemn and studious . 
Inga was in his tree one morning when , without warning , a great fog enveloped the Island of Pingaree . 
All that forenoon the fog continued . 
King Kitticut , who sat in his palace talking with his merry visitor , ordered the candles lighted , that they might be able to see one another . 
But soon after noon the weather changed . 
The dense fog rolled away like a heavy cloud and suddenly the sun shot his bright rays over the island . 
Very good ! exclaimed King Kitticut . 
We shall have a pleasant afternoon , I am sure , and he blew out the candles . 
Immediately there was a scurrying of feet as every one in the palace , filled with dismay , rushed outside to see what had happened . 
even fat little Rinkitink sprang from his chair and followed his host and the others through the arched vestibule . 
After many years the worst fears of King Kitticut were realized . 
Landing upon the beach , which was but a few steps from the palace itself , were hundreds of boats , every one filled with a throng of fierce warriors . 
They sprang upon the land with wild shouts of defiance and rushed to the King's palace , waving aloft their swords and spears and battleaxes . 
King Kitticut , so completely surprised that he was bewildered , gazed at the approaching host with terror and grief . 
They are the men of Regos and Coregos ! he groaned . 
We are , indeed , lost ! Then he bethought himself , for the first time , of his wonderful pearls . 
Turning quickly , he ran back into the palace and hastened to the hall where the treasures were hidden . 
But the leader of the warriors had seen the King enter the palace and bounded after him , thinking he meant to escape . 
This they did very quickly and King Kitticut soon found himself helplessly bound and in the power of his enemies . 
In this sad condition he was lifted by the warriors and carried outside , when the good King looked upon a sorry sight . 
At once they began carrying their victims to the boats , tossing them in as unceremoniously as if they had been bales of merchandise . 
The King looked around for his son Inga , but failed to find the boy among the prisoners . 
Nor was the fat King , Rinkitink , to be seen anywhere about . 
We have captured them all . 
But the terrifying cries of the people , mingled with the shouts of the rude warriors , caused him to pause and listen eagerly . 
Then he climbed rapidly up the tree , far above his platform , to the topmost swaying branches . 
Turning to look upon his father's palace , he found it surrounded by a horde of enemies . 
Then Inga knew the truth that tile island had been invaded by the barbaric warriors from the north . 
He grew so faint from the terror of it all that he might have fallen had he not wound his arms around a limb and clung fast until the dizzy feeling passed away . 
Then with his sash he bound himself to the limb and again ventured to look out through the leaves . 
The warriors were now engaged in carrying King Kitticut and Queen Garee and all their other captives down to the boats , where they were thrown in and chained one to another . 
It was a dreadful sight for the Prince to witness , but he sat very still , concealed from the sight of anyone below by the bower of leafy branches around him . 
Inga knew very well that he could do nothing to help his beloved parents , and that if he came down he would only be forced to share their cruel fate . 
Then the walls themselves were torn down , till little remained of the beautiful palace but a vast heap of white marble blocks tumbled and scattered upon the ground . 
Prince Inga wept bitter tears of grief as he watched the ruin of his home yet he was powerless to avert the destruction . 
They were so numerous that they formed a line stretching from shore to shore and they destroyed every house they came to and took every inhabitant prisoner . 
The pearl fishers who lived at the lower end of the island tried to escape in their boats , but they were soon overtaken and made prisoners , like the others . 
When night fell the whole of the Island of Pingaree had been conquered by the men of the North , and all its people were slaves of the conquerors . 
And the hundreds of slaves they had captured would be set to work in the mines of Regos and the grain fields of Coregos . 
So complete was the victory of the Northmen that it is no wonder the warriors sang songs of triumph as they hastened back to their homes . 
Great rewards were awaiting them when they showed the haughty King of Regos and the terrible Queen of Coregos the results of their ocean raid and conquest . 
Chapter Four The Deserted Island All through that terrible night Prince Inga remained hidden in his tree . 
The sun shone upon the beautiful green isle as brilliantly as if no ruthless invader had passed and laid it in ruins . 
The birds still chirped among the trees and the butterflies darted from flower to flower as happily as when the land was filled with a prosperous and contented people . 
Inga feared that only he was left of all his nation . 
Perhaps he might be obliged to pass his life there alone . 
He would not starve , for the sea would give him oysters and fish , and the trees fruit yet the life that confronted him was far from enticing . 
The boy's first act was to walk over to where the palace had stood and search the ruins until he found some scraps of food that had been overlooked by the enemy . 
He sat upon a block of marble and ate of this , and tears filled his eyes as he gazed upon the desolation around him . 
But Inga tried to bear up bravely , and having satisfied his hunger he walked over to the well , intending to draw a bucket of drinking water . 
Fortunately , this well had been overlooked by the invaders and the bucket was still fastened to the chain that wound around a stout wooden windlass . 
Nothing could be seen , on account of the darkness . 
Who are you ? he shouted . 
It's I Rinkitink , came the answer , and the depths of the well echoed Tink i tink i tink ! in a ghostly manner . 
Are you in the well ? asked the boy , greatly surprised . 
Yes , and nearly drowned . 
I fell in while running from those terrible warriors , and I've been standing in this damp hole ever since , with my head just above the water . 
I'm awfully sorry , cried the boy , in answer . 
I wonder you have the heart to laugh at all . 
He clung to the crank as long as possible , but suddenly it slipped from his grasp and the next minute he heard Rinkitink fall plump ! into the water again . 
That's too bad ! called Inga , in real distress but you were so heavy I couldn't help it . 
Dear me ! gasped the King , from the darkness below , as he spluttered and coughed to get the water out of his mouth . 
Why didn't you tell me you were going to let go ? I hadn't time , said Inga , sorrowfully . 
But never mind ! So long as I'm not actually drowned , what does it matter ? What shall we do next ? asked the boy anxiously . 
Call someone to help you , was the reply . 
There is no one on the island but myself , said the boy excepting you , he added , as an afterthought . 
I'm not on it more's the pity ! but in it , responded Rinkitink . 
So so ! said Rinkitink softly and then he paused a moment , as if in thought . 
Finally he said There are worse things than slavery , but I never imagined a well could be one of them . 
Didn't the warriors get you , either ? If they had , calmly replied Bilbil , I shouldn't be here . 
But how did you escape ? asked the boy . 
I kept my mouth shut and stayed away from the rascals , said the goat . 
I knew that the soldiers would not care for a skinny old beast like me , for to the eye of a stranger I seem good for nothing . 
Had they known I could talk , and that my head contained more wisdom than a hundred of their own noddles , I might not have escaped so easily . 
Perhaps you are right , said the boy . 
I suppose they got the old man ? carelessly remarked Bilbil . 
What old man ? Rinkitink . 
Oh , no ! His Majesty is at the bottom of the well , said Inga , and I don't know how to get him out again . 
Then let him stay there , suggested the goat . 
I am sure , Bilbil , that you are fond of the good King , your master , and do not mean what you say . 
Together , let us find some way to save poor King Rinkitink . 
He is a very jolly companion , and has a heart exceedingly kind and gentle . 
Oh , well the old boy isn't so bad , taken altogether , admitted Bilbil , speaking in a more friendly tone . 
But his bad jokes and fat laughter tire me dreadfully , at times . 
Prince Inga now ran back to the well , the goat following more leisurely . 
Here's Bilbil ! shouted the boy to the King . 
The enemy didn't get him , it seems . 
That's lucky for the enemy , said Rinkitink . 
But it's lucky for me , too , for perhaps the beast can assist me out of this hole . 
If you can let a rope down the well , I am sure that you and Bilbil , pulling together , will be able to drag me to the earth's surface . 
Be patient and we will make the attempt , replied Inga encouragingly , and he ran to search . 
the ruins for a rope . 
Bilbil had lain down to sleep and the refrain of a merry song came in muffled tones from the well , proving that Rinkitink was making a patient endeavor to amuse himself . 
He now aroused Bilbil and fastened the rope firmly around the goat's shoulders . 
Are you ready ? asked the boy , leaning over the well . 
I am , replied the King . 
And I am not , growled the goat , for I have not yet had my nap out . 
Old Rinki will be safe enough in the well until I've slept an hour or two longer . 
But it is damp in the well , protested the boy , and King Rinkitink may catch the rheumatism , so that he will have to ride upon your back wherever he goes . 
Hearing this , Bilbil jumped up at once . 
Let's get him out , he said earnestly . 
Hold fast ! shouted Inga to the King . 
Then he seized the rope and helped Bilbil to pull . 
They soon found the task more difficult than they had supposed . 
Once or twice the King's weight threatened to drag both the boy and the goat into the well , to keep Rinkitink company . 
But they pulled sturdily , being aware of this danger , and at last the King popped out of the hole and fell sprawling full length upon the ground . 
Finally Bilbil said to the King I'm surprised at you . 
Bilbil , replied the King solemnly , you're a goat . 
Do you imagine I fell down the well on purpose ? I imagine nothing , retorted Bilbil . 
I only know you were there . 
There ? Heh heh heek keek eek ! To be sure I was there , laughed Rinkitink . 
I was running away from the enemy , explained the King , and I was carelessly looking over my shoulder at the same time , to see if they were chasing me . 
So I did not see the well , but stepped into it and found myself tumbling down to the bottom . 
So I stood still and yelled for help but no one heard me . 
If the warriors had heard you , said Bilbil , they would have pulled you out and carried you away to be a slave . 
Then you would have been obliged to work for a living , and that would be a new experience . 
So I'm glad the enemy did not find me , Bilbil . 
How many others escaped ? That I do not know , replied the boy , for I have not yet had time to visit the other parts of the island . 
When you have rested and satisfied your royal hunger , it might be well for us to look around and see what the thieving warriors of Regos and Coregos have left us . 
An excellent idea , declared Rinkitink . 
I am somewhat feeble from my long confinement in the well , but I can ride upon Bilbil's back and we may as well start at once . 
Hearing this , Bilbil cast a surly glance at his master but said nothing , since it was really the goat's business to carry King Rinkitink wherever he desired to go . 
They first searched the ruins of the palace , and where the kitchen had once been they found a small quantity of food that had been half hidden by a block of marble . 
This they carefully placed in a sack to preserve it for future use , the little fat King having first eaten as much as he cared for . 
This consumed some time , for Rinkitink had been exceedingly hungry and liked to eat in a leisurely manner . 
When he had finished the meal he straddled Bilbil's back and set out to explore the island , Prince Inga walking by his side . 
They found on every hand ruin and desolation . 
The houses of the people had been pilfered of all valuables and then torn down or burned . 
Not a boat had been left upon the shore , nor was there a single person , man or woman or child , remaining upon the island , save themselves . 
The only inhabitants of Pingaree now consisted of a fat little King , a boy and a goat . 
Even Rinkitink , merry hearted as he was , found it hard to laugh in the face of this mighty disaster . 
Even the goat , contrary to its usual habit , refrained from saying anything disagreeable . 
As for the poor boy whose home was now a wilderness , the tears came often to his eyes as he marked the ruin of his dearly loved island . 
When , at nightfall , they reached the lower end of Pingaree and found it swept as bare as the rest , Inga's grief was almost more than he could bear . 
Everything had been swept from him parents , home and country in so brief a time that his bewilderment was equal to his sorrow . 
Since no house remained standing , in which they might sleep , the three wanderers crept beneath the overhanging branches of a cassa tree and curled themselves up as comfortably as possible . 
So tired and exhausted were they by the day's anxieties and griefs that their troubles soon faded into the mists of dreamland . 
Beast and King and boy slumbered peacefully together until wakened by the singing of the birds which greeted the dawn of a new day . 
I'll not starve , for I can eat grass , remarked the goat in a pleasant tone or a tone as pleasant as Bilbil could assume . 
True , quite true , said the King . 
You would make a remarkably tough morsel , and my teeth are not as good as they once were . 
While this talk was in progress Inga suddenly remembered the three pearls which his father had hidden under the tiled floor of the banquet hall . 
So they must still be in their hiding place , and Inga believed they would prove of great assistance to him and his comrades in this hour of need . 
But the palace was a mass of ruins perhaps he would be unable now to find the place where the pearls were hidden . 
He said nothing of this to Rinkitink , remembering that his father had charged him to preserve the secret of the pearls and of their magic powers . 
Nevertheless , the thought of securing the wonderful treasures of his ancestors gave the boy new hope . 
He stood up and said to the King Let us return to the other end of Pingaree . 
It is more pleasant than here in spite of the desolation of my father's palace . 
And there , if anywhere , we shall discover a way out of our difficulties . 
This suggestion met with Rinkitink's approval and the little party at once started upon the return journey . 
This done , the boy hunted through the ruins until he discovered a stool and an armchair that had not been broken beyond use . 
Meantime Rinkitink had risen from his bed and walked out upon the lawn , where he found Bilbil reclining at ease upon the greensward . 
Where is Inga ? asked Rinkitink , rubbing his eyes with his knuckles because their vision was blurred with too much sleep . 
Don't ask me , said the goat , chewing with much satisfaction a cud of sweet grasses . 
My good friend Kitticut has been kidnapped by the barbarians and taken from me , so there is no one to converse with me intelligently . 
I am the King and you are the goat . 
Suppose you tell me a story . 
Suppose I don't , said Bilbil , with a scowl , for a goat's face is very expressive . 
If you refuse , I shall be more unhappy than ever , and I know your disposition is too sweet to permit that . 
Tell me a story , Bilbil . 
The goat looked at him with an expression of scorn . 
Said he One would think you are but four years old , Rinkitink ! But there I will do as you command . 
Listen carefully , and the story may do you some good although I doubt if you understand the moral . 
I am sure the story will do me good , declared the King , whose eyes were twinkling . 
Once on a time , began the goat . 
When was that , Bilbil ? asked the King gently . 
Don't interrupt it is impolite . 
That part of the story is true enough , Rinkitink . 
Then proceed with the tale , sweet Bilbil . 
Yet it is hard to believe that any King could be brainless unless , indeed , he proved it by owning a talking goat . 
Bilbil glared at him a full minute in silence . 
Then he resumed his story This empty headed man was a King by accident , having been born to that high station . 
Also the King was empty headed by the same chance , being born without brains . 
Poor fellow ! quoth the King . 
Did he own a talking goat ? He did , answered Bilbil . 
Then he was wrong to have been born at all . 
Cheek eek eek eek , oo , hoo ! chuckled Rinkitink , his fat body shaking with merriment . 
Ask someone with brains , my boy I'm sure I can't tell , replied the King , bursting into one of his merry fits of laughter . 
Bilbil rose to his hoofs and walked away in a dignified manner , leaving Rinkitink chuckling anew at the sour expression of the animal's face . 
Bilbil was deeply vexed and would not even turn his head to look at his master . 
To escape from Rinkitink he wandered among the ruins of the palace , where he came upon Prince Inga . 
Good morning , Bilbil , said the boy . 
I was just going to find you , that I might consult you upon an important matter . 
If you will kindly turn back with me I am sure your good judgment will be of great assistance . 
All men are deserving of respect , being the highest of living creatures , and Kings deserve respect more than others , for they are set to rule over many people . 
Nevertheless , said Bilbil with conviction , Rinkitink's head is certainly empty of brains . 
That I am unwilling to believe , insisted Inga . 
But anyway his heart is kind and gentle and that is better than being wise . 
He is merry in spite of misfortunes that would cause others to weep and he never speaks harsh words that wound the feelings of his friends . 
Still , growled Bilbil , he is Let us forget everything but his good nature , which puts new heart into us when we are sad , advised the boy . 
But he is Come with me , please , interrupted Inga , for the matter of which I wish to speak is very important . 
Bilbil followed him , although the boy still heard the goat muttering that the King had no brains . 
Rinkitink , seeing them turn into the ruins , also followed , and upon joining them asked for his breakfast . 
Then , mumbled Rinkitink , with his mouth full , let us move the blocks of marble . 
But how ? inquired Prince Inga . 
Ah , how , indeed ? returned the King , smacking his lips contentedly . 
That is a serious question . 
But I have it ! Let us see what my famous parchment says about it . 
The goat gave a snort of contempt Inga was silent the King looked from one to the other inquiringly . 
That's the idea , exactly ! declared Rinkitink . 
To be sure , said Bilbil scornfully , it tells us exactly how to move the blocks of marble . 
Oh , does it ? responded the King , and then for a moment he rubbed the top of his bald head in a perplexed manner . 
The next moment he burst into a peal of joyous laughter . 
The goat looked at Inga and sighed . 
What did I tell you ? asked the creature . 
Was I right , or was I wrong ? This scroll , said Rinkitink , is indeed a masterpiece . 
Its advice is of tremendous value . 
'Never step on another man's toes . 
Let us think this over . 
The inference is that we should step upon our own toes , which were given us for that purpose . 
Therefore , if I stepped upon another man's toes , I would be the other man . 
Hoo , hoo , hoo ! the other man hee , hee , heek keek eek ! Funny , isn't it ? Didn't I say began Bilbil . 
No matter what you said , my boy , roared the King . 
No fool could have figured that out as nicely as I did . 
We have still to decide how to remove the blocks of marble , suggested Inga anxiously . 
Fasten a rope to them , and pull , said Bilbil . 
Don't pay any more attention to Rinkitink , for he is no wiser than the man who wrote that brainless scroll . 
Just get the rope , and we'll fasten Rinkitink to one end of it for a weight and I'll help you pull . 
Thank you , Bilbil , replied the boy . 
I'll get the rope at once . 
Inga fastened one end of the rope around a block of marble and then made a loop at the other end to go over Bilbil's head . 
When all was ready the boy seized the rope and helped the goat to pull yet , strain as they might , the huge block would not stir from its place . 
Seeing this , King Rinkitink came forward and lent his assistance , the weight of his body forcing the heavy marble to slide several feet from where it had lain . 
But it was hard work and all were obliged to take a long rest before undertaking the removal of the next block . 
Admit , Bilbil , said the King , that I am of some use in the world . 
Your weight was of considerable help , acknowledged the goat , but if your head were as well filled as your stomach the task would be still easier . 
When Inga went to fasten the rope a second time he was rejoiced to discover that by moving one more block of marble he could uncover the tile with the secret spring . 
So the three pulled with renewed energy and to their joy the block moved and rolled upon its side , leaving Inga free to remove the treasure when he pleased . 
During the afternoon he waded out to some rocks near the shore and fished patiently until he had captured enough yellow perch for their supper and breakfast . 
I have often caught fish , but never cooked them . 
Perhaps Your Majesty understands cooking . 
Cooking and majesty are two different things , laughed the little King . 
I could not cook a fish to save me from starvation . 
For my part , said Bilbil , I never eat fish , but I can tell you how to cook them , for I have often watched the palace cooks at their work . 
And so , with the goat's assistance , the boy and the King managed to prepare the fish and cook them , after which they were eaten with good appetite . 
That night , after Rinkitink and Bilbil were both fast asleep , Inga stole quietly through the moonlight to the desolate banquet hall . 
There , kneeling down , he touched the secret spring as his father had instructed him to do and to his joy the tile sank downward and disclosed the opening . 
You may imagine how the boy's heart throbbed with excitement as he slowly thrust his hand into the cavity and felt around to see if the precious pearls were still there . 
When he reached a bright place he started to open the bag , but he observed Bilbil lying asleep upon the grass near by . 
So , trembling with the fear of discovery , he ran to another place , and when he paused he heard Rinkitink snoring lustily . 
Again he fled and made his way to the seashore , where he squatted under a bank and began to untie the cords that fastened the mouth of the bag . 
But now another fear assailed him . 
If the pearls should slip from my hand , he thought , and roll into the water , they might be lost to me forever . 
I must find some safer place . 
But here it was pitch dark , so he found he must wait patiently until morning before he dared touch the pearls . 
During those hours of waiting he had time for reflection and reproached himself for being so frightened by the possession of his father's treasures . 
These pearls have belonged to our family for generations , he mused , yet no one has ever lost them . 
If I use ordinary care I am sure I need have no fears for their safety . 
When the dawn came and he could see plainly , Inga opened the bag and took out the Blue Pearl . 
There was no possibility of his being observed by others , so he took time to examine it wonderingly , saying to himself This will give me strength . 
Taking off his right shoe he placed the Blue Pearl within it , far up in the pointed toe . 
Then he tore a piece from his handkerchief and stuffed it into the shoe to hold the pearl in place . 
After he had put on the Shoe and laced it up he opened the bag and took out the Pink Pearl . 
This will protect me from danger , said Inga , and removing the shoe from his left foot he carefully placed the pearl in the hollow toe . 
This , also , he secured in place by means of a strip torn from his handkerchief . 
How could I do that ? exclaimed Prince Inga , amazed at receiving such advice . 
To night , spoke the voice of the pearl , there will be a storm , and in the morning a boat will strand upon the shore . 
Take this boat and row to Regos and Coregos . 
How can I , a weak boy , pull the boat so far ? he inquired , doubting the possibility . 
The Blue Pearl will give you strength , was the reply . 
But I may be shipwrecked and drowned , before ever I reach Regos and Coregos , protested the boy . 
The Pink Pearl will protect you from harm , murmured the voice , soft and low but very distinct . 
Restoring the White Pearl to the depths of the silken bag , Inga fastened it securely around his neck and buttoned his waist above it to hide the treasure from all prying eyes . 
Then he slowly climbed down from the tree and returned to the room where King Rinkitink still slept . 
The goat was browsing upon the grass but looked cross and surly . 
When the boy said good morning as he passed , Bilbil made no response whatever . 
A secret told is no longer a secret , replied Inga , with a laugh . 
Besides , this is a family secret , which it is proper I should keep to myself . 
But I may tell you one thing , at least We are going to leave this island to morrow morning . 
The King seemed puzzled' by this statement . 
We shall not swim , but ride comfortably in a boat , promised Inga . 
There isn't a boat on this island ! declared Rinkitink , looking upon the boy with wonder . 
But one will come to us in the morning . 
For this reason the King did not question the boy further but tried to cheer him by telling him witty stories . 
Not since the fierce warriors had descended upon Pingaree had the boy been so hopeful and happy . 
With Rinkitink riding upon Bilbil's back , the three made a tour of the island and found in the central part some bushes and trees bearing ripe fruit . 
I am never more happy , said he with a sigh , than when I am eating . 
Toward evening the sky became overcast and soon a great storm began to rage . 
Prince Inga and King Rinkitink took refuge within the shelter of the room they had fitted up and there Bilbil joined them . 
All night the wind shrieked around the island thunder rolled , lightning flashed and rain came down in torrents . 
But with morning the storm abated and when the sun arose no sign of the tempest remained save a few fallen trees . 
Never for an instant did he doubt that he would find it and before he had walked any great distance a dark object at the water's edge caught his eye . 
It is the boat , Bilbil ! he cried joyfully , and running down to it he found it was , indeed , a large and roomy boat . 
Although stranded upon the beach , it was in perfect order and had suffered in no way from the storm . 
Inga stood for some moments gazing upon the handsome craft and wondering where it could have come from . 
Certainly it was unlike any boat he had ever seen . 
The seats had white velvet cushions upon them and the cushions were splendidly embroidered with threads of gold . 
At one end , beneath the broad seat , was a small barrel with silver hoops , which the boy found was filled with fresh , sweet water . 
A great chest of sandalwood , bound and ornamented with silver , stood in the other end of the boat . 
It is no wonder the boy was delighted with the appearance of this beautiful boat but on reflection he feared it was too large for him to row any great distance . 
Unless , indeed , the Blue Pearl gave him unusual strength . 
I do not wish to go to Gilgad , said Inga . 
That is too bad , my friend , for you would be very welcome . 
But you may remain upon this island , if you wish , continued Rinkitink , and when I get home I will send some of my people to rescue you . 
It is my boat , Your Majesty , said Inga quietly . 
May be , may be , was the careless answer , but I am King of a great country , while you are a boy Prince without any kingdom to speak of . 
Therefore , being of greater importance than you , it is just and right that I take , your boat and return to my own country in it . 
Hey ? What ! cried the astounded King . 
It's no fun to be a slave . 
The people of Regos and Coregos will not enslave us , declared Inga . 
On the contrary , it is my intention to set free my dear parents , as well as all my people , and to bring them back again to Pingaree . 
Cheek eek eek eek eek ! How funny ! chuckled Rinkitink , winking at the goat , which scowled in return . 
Your audacity takes my breath away , Inga , but the adventure has its charm , I must , confess . 
As for your determination to do what I admit I can't do , Inga , I fear you forget that you are only a boy , and rather small at that . 
No , I do not forget that , was Inga's reply . 
Then please consider that you and I and Bilbil are not strong enough , as an army , to conquer a powerful nation of skilled warriors . 
We could attempt it , of course , but you are too young to die , while I am too old . 
Come with me to my City of Gilgad , where you will be greatly honored . 
I'll have my professors teach you how to be good . 
No doubt of it , agreed Rinkitink . 
What is the bargain you propose , Inga ? Let us both get into the boat , and you shall first try to row us to Gilgad . 
If you succeed , I will accompany you right willingly but should you fail , I will then row the boat to Regos , and you must come with me without further protest . 
A fair and just bargain ! cried the King , highly pleased . 
Yet , although I am a man of mighty deeds , I do not relish the prospect of rowing so big a boat all the way to Gilgad . 
But I will do my best and abide by the result . 
The matter being thus peaceably settled , they prepared to embark . 
But there was no thought of leaving the quaint animal behind . 
Finally Bilbil fell sprawling into the bottom of the boat , and Inga helped him to get to the front end , where there was enough space for him to lie down . 
Rinkitink now took his seat in the silver lined craft and the boy came last , pushing off the boat as he sprang aboard , so that it floated freely upon the water . 
Well , here we go for Gilgad ! exclaimed the King , picking up the oars and placing them in the row locks . 
So our hearts are merry , light and glad As we speed away to fair Gilgad ! Don't , Rinkitink please don't ! It makes me seasick , growled Bilbil . 
Rinkitink stopped rowing , for by this time he was all out of breath and his round face was covered with big drops of perspiration . 
And when he looked over his shoulder he found to his dismay that the boat had scarcely moved a foot from its former position . 
Inga said nothing and appeared not to notice the King's failure . 
So now Rinkitink , with a serious look on his fat , red face , took off his purple robe and rolled up the sleeves of his tunic and tried again . 
As he wiped his brow with a yellow silk handkerchief he sang in a merry voice A sailor bold am I , I hold , But boldness will not row a boat . 
So I confess I'm in distress And just as useless as the goat . 
Please leave me out of your verses , said Bilbil with a snort of anger . 
When I make a fool of myself , Bilbil , I'm a goat , replied Rinkitink . 
Not so , insisted Bilbil . 
Nothing could make you a member of my superior race . 
Superior ? Why , Bilbil , a goat is but a beast , while I am a King ! I claim that superiority lies in intelligence , said the goat . 
Indeed , it will be hard for us to reach land again . 
Let me take the oars , suggested Inga . 
You must not forget our bargain . 
No , indeed , answered Rinkitink . 
If you can row us to Regos , or to any other place , I will go with you without protest . 
So the King took Inga's place at the stern of the boat and the boy grasped the oars and commenced to row . 
And now , to the great wonder of Rinkitink and even to Inga's surprise the oars became light as feathers as soon as the Prince took hold of them . 
In an instant the boat began to glide rapidly through the water and , seeing this , the boy turned its prow toward the north . 
Prince Inga did not tire from the labor of rowing indeed , it seemed to him no labor at all . 
But the canopy shut out the hot rays and rendered the interior of the boat cool and pleasant . 
This is a glorious ride ! cried Rinkitink , as he lay back in the shade . 
I find it a decided relief to be away from that dismal island of Pingaree . 
Oh , I hope not ! exclaimed Inga , distressed at the thought . 
They may be cannibals , in which case they will roast and eat us , suggested Bilbil , who wished to terrify his master . 
Who knows ? answered Rinkitink , with a shudder . 
But cheer up , Bilbil they may not kill us after all , or even capture us so let us not borrow trouble . 
Do not look so cross , my sprightly quadruped , and I will sing to amuse you . 
Your song would make me more cross than ever , grumbled the goat . 
Quite impossible , dear Bilbil . 
You couldn't be more surly if you tried . 
So here is a famous song for you . 
It reminds me of the alligator that tried to whistle . 
Did he succeed , Bilbil ? asked the King . 
He whistled as well as you sing . 
Ha , ha , ha , ha , heek , keek , eek ! chuckled the King . 
He must have whistled most exquisitely , eh , my friend ? I am not your friend , returned the goat , wagging his ears in a surly manner . 
I am yours , however , was the King's cheery reply and to prove it I'll sing you another verse . 
I consider it as sweet as candy made from mustard and vinegar . 
But not as sweet as your disposition , I admit . 
Ah , Bilbil , your temper would put honey itself to shame . 
Do not quarrel , I beg of you , pleaded Inga . 
Are we not sad enough already ? But this is a jolly quarrel , said the King , and it is the way Bilbil and I often amuse ourselves . 
I am glad that is the last verse , for another of the same kind might cause me to faint . 
I fear you have no ear for music , said the King . 
I have heard no music , as yet , declared the goat . 
You must have a strong imagination , King Rinkitink , if you consider your songs music . 
Do you remember the story of the bear that hired out for a nursemaid ? I do not recall it just now , said Rinkitink , with a wink at Inga . 
Well , the bear tried to sing a lullaby to put the baby to sleep . 
And then ? said the King . 
The bear was highly pleased with its own voice , but the baby was nearly frightened to death . 
However , if I have not amused you , I have at least pleased myself , for I am exceedingly fond of a good song . 
So let us say no more about it . 
All this time the boy Prince was rowing . 
He was not in the least tired , for the oars he held seemed to move of their own accord . 
When the others finally became silent , Inga inquired . 
Can you fight , King Rinkitink ? I have never tried , was the answer . 
In time of danger I have found it much easier to run away than to face the foe . 
But could you fight ? asked the boy . 
I might try , if there was no chance to escape by running . 
Have you a proper weapon for me to fight with ? I have no weapon at all , confessed Inga . 
Then let us use argument and persuasion instead of fighting . 
For instance , if we could persuade the warriors of Regos to lie down , and let me step on them , they would be crushed with ease . 
Prince Inga had expected little support from the King , so he was not discouraged by this answer . 
It seemed to him , on further reflection , that he must rely upon circumstances to determine his actions when he reached the islands of the barbarians . 
By this time Inga felt perfect confidence in the Magic Pearls . 
It was the White Pearl that had given him the boat , and the Blue Pearl that had given him strength to row it . 
He believed that the Pink Pearl would protect him from any danger that might arise so his anxiety was not for himself , but for his companions . 
King Rinkitink and the goat had no magic to protect them , so Inga resolved to do all in his power to keep them from harm . 
For three days and three nights the boat with the silver lining sped swiftly over the ocean . 
On the morning of the fourth day , so quickly had they traveled , Inga saw before him the shores of the two great islands of Regos and Coregos . 
The pearls have guided me aright ! he whispered to himself . 
Now , if I am wise , and cautious , and brave , I believe I shall be able to rescue my father and mother and my people . 
Chapter Seven The Twin Islands The Island of Regos was ten miles wide and forty miles long and it was ruled by a big and powerful King named Gos . 
Near to the shores were green and fertile fields , but farther back from the sea were rugged hills and mountains , so rocky that nothing would grow there . 
But in these mountains were mines of gold and silver , which the slaves of the King were forced to work , being confined in dark underground passages for that purpose . 
In the course of time huge caverns had been hollowed out by the slaves , in which they lived and slept , never seeing the light of day . 
Between the green shores and the mountains were forests of thick , tangled trees , between which narrow paths had been cut to lead up to the caves of the mines . 
It was on the level green meadows , not far from the ocean , that the great City of Regos had been built , wherein was located the palace of the King . 
The Island of Coregos lay close beside the Island of Regos so close , indeed , that one might have thrown a stone from one shore to another . 
But Coregos was only half the size of Regos and instead of being mountainous it was a rich and pleasant country , covered with fields of grain . 
The fields of Coregos furnished food for the warriors and citizens of both countries , while the mines of Regos made them all rich . 
From Regos to Coregos stretched a bridge of boats , set close together , with planks laid across their edges for people to walk upon . 
In this way it was easy to pass from one island to the other and in times of danger the bridge could be quickly removed . 
The native inhabitants of Regos and Coregos consisted of the warriors , who did nothing but fight and ravage , and the trembling servants who waited on them . 
King Gos and Queen Cor were at war with all the rest of the world . 
Other islanders hated and feared them , for their slaves were badly treated and absolutely no mercy was shown to the weak or ill . 
The gentle Queen of Pingaree and all her women , together with the captured children , were given to Queen Cor , who set them to work in her grain fields . 
Then the rulers and warriors of these dreadful islands thought they had done forever with Pingaree . 
The warriors asked one another who these could be , and where they had come from ? No one ever came to those islands of their own accord , that was certain . 
Those people surely mean us no good , said Rinkitink uneasily to the boy . 
Without doubt they intend to capture us and make us their slaves . 
Do not fear , sir , answered Inga , in a calm voice . 
Stay quietly in the boat with Bilbil until I have spoken with these men . 
He stopped the boat a dozen feet from the shore , and standing up in his place made a grave bow to the multitude confronting him . 
Who is the funny fat person with you ? It is His Majesty , King Rinkitink , of the great City of Gilgad . 
He has accompanied me to see that you render full restitution for all you have stolen from Pingaree . 
Better yet ! laughed Buzzub . 
He will make a fine slave for Queen Cor , who loves to tickle fat men , and see them jump . 
The boy spoke very gravely and earnestly , but his words only aroused another shout of laughter . 
So while the men of Regos were laughing Inga drove the boat we'll up onto the sandy beach and leaped out . 
There was a bunch of coarse hair between the goat's ears , and this Inga clutched firmly in his left hand . 
But Captain Buzzub did not know this , and the little group of three seemed so weak and ridiculous that he believed their capture would be easy . 
Without paying any attention to these attempts at capture , Inga advanced slowly and the goat kept pace with him . 
And when Rinkitink saw that he was safe from harm he gave one of his big , merry laughs , and it startled the warriors and made them nervous . 
Captain Buzzub's eyes grew big with surprise as the three steadily advanced and forced his men backward nor was he free from terror himself at the magic that protected these strange visitors . 
This they tried to do . 
Inga being in advance , the warriors sent a flight of sharp arrows straight at the boy's breast , while others cast their long spears at him . 
Nor were Rinkitink or Bilbil injured in the least , although they stood close beside Inga . 
Buzzub stood for a moment looking upon the boy in silent wonder . 
Then , recovering himself , he shouted in a loud voice Once again ! All together , my men . 
It was not until he heard Inga say triumphantly , We have won the fight without striking a blow ! that Rinkitink dared open his eyes again . 
Then he saw the warriors rushing into the City of Regos and barring the heavy gates , and he was very much relieved at the sight . 
Without striking a blow ! said Bilbil indignantly . 
That is not quite true , Prince Inga . 
You did not fight , I admit , but I struck a couple of times to good purpose , and I claim to have conquered the cowardly warriors unaided . 
You and I together , Bilbil , said Rinkitink mildly . 
But the next time you make a charge , please warn me in time , so that I may dismount and give you all the credit for the attack . 
There being no one now to oppose their advance , the three walked to the gates of the city , which had been closed against them . 
The big captain still trembled with fear , but King Gos did not helieve in magic , and called Buzzub a coward and a weakling . 
As they came before the gates another shower of arrows and spears descended upon them , and as before not a single missile touched their bodies . 
Inga let them shoot as much as they wished , while he stood before the great gates and examined them carefully . 
Perhaps Bilbil can batter down the gates , suggested Rinkitink . 
No , replied the goat my head is hard , but not harder than iron . 
Then , returned the King , let us stay outside especially as we can't get in . 
But Inga was not at all sure they could not get in . 
The gates opened inward , and three heavy bars were held in place by means of stout staples riveted to the sheets of steel . 
The boy had been told that the power of the Blue Pearl would enable him to accomplish any feat of strength , and he believed that this was true . 
The warriors , under the direction of King Gos , continued to hurl arrows and darts and spears and axes and huge stones upon the invaders , all without avail . 
The ground below was thickly covered with weapons , yet not one of the three before the gates had been injured in the slightest manner . 
A thousand of their men could not have accomplished this feat , yet the small , slight boy did it with seeming ease . 
The gates burst open , and Inga advanced into the city street and called upon King Gos to surrender . 
But Gos was now as badly frightened as were his warriors . 
Like all bullies and marauders , Gos was a coward at heart , and now a panic seized him and he turned and fled before the calm advance of Prince Inga of Pingaree . 
Not a warrior remained in all Regos to oppose the triumphant three the bridge of boats had been destroyed Inga and his companions were free from danger for a time , at least . 
The jolly little King appreciated this fact and rejoiced that he had escaped all injury during the battle . 
How it had all happened he could not tell , nor even guess , but he was content in being safe and free to take possession of the enemy's city . 
If I remember aright , he did a little of the conquering himself . 
So he did , responded the King , and that's the reason I'm sounding our own praise , Bilbil . 
Those who do the least , often shout the loudest and so get the most glory . 
Inga did so much that there is danger of his becoming more important than we are , and so we'd best say nothing about him . 
There were many pleasant apartments , but Rinkitink proposed to Inga that they share one of the largest bedrooms together . 
In any danger , were I alone , I might be easily killed or captured , while if you are by my side you can save me from injury . 
That evening the boy Prince and the fat King dined in great state in the lofty domed dining hall of the palace , where forty servants waited upon them . 
You are welcome to it , said he to the chef , because I have eaten so much that I cannot use that lower button at all . 
Rinkitink was mightily pleased to live in a comfortable palace again and to dine at a well spread table . 
His joy grew every moment , so that he came in time to be as merry and cheery as before Pingaree was despoiled . 
And , although he had been much frightened during Inga's defiance of the army of King Gos , he now began to turn the matter into a joke . 
He was cowed through fear of your magic , and that reminds me to demand from you an explanation . 
Instead , he replied Be patient , Your Majesty . 
The secret is not my own , so please do not ask me to divulge it . 
Is it not enough , for the present , that the magic saved you from death to day ? Do not think me ungrateful , answered the King earnestly . 
They were , indeed , no larger than your head . 
Are you sure about that ? asked Rinkitink . 
Quite sure , Your Majesty . 
How deceptive those things are ! sighed the King . 
This argument reminds me of the story of Tom Tick , which my father used to tell . 
I have never heard that story , Inga answered . 
Indeed , said Inga , laughing , the gnat was much like your stones that seemed as big as mountains . 
After their dinner they inspected the palace , which was filled with valuable goods stolen by King Gos from many nations . 
But the day's events had tired them and they retired early to their big sleeping apartment . 
In the morning , said the boy to Rinkitink , as he was undressing for bed , I shall begin the search for my father and mother and the people of Pingaree . 
And , when they are found and rescued , we will all go home again , and be as happy as we were before . 
They carefully bolted the door of their room , that no one might enter , and then got into their beds , where Rinkitink fell asleep in an instant . 
But when the boy had put on both his stockings and began looking for his shoes , he could find but one of them . 
The left shoe , that containing the Pink Pearl , was missing . 
He tried the door , and found it still bolted so , with growing uneasiness , the boy was forced to admit that the precious shoe was not in the room . 
With a throbbing heart he aroused his companion . 
Have you lost a shoe ? Yes , said Inga . 
I have searched everywhere in the room , and cannot find it . 
But why bother me about such a small thing ? inquired Rinkitink . 
A shoe is only a shoe , and you can easily get another one . 
But , stay ! Perhaps it was your shoe which I threw at the cat last night . 
The cat ! cried Inga . 
As the noise disturbed me , I reached out in the dark and caught up something and threw it at the cat , to frighten the creature away . 
I did not know what it was that I threw , and I was too sleepy to care but probably it was your shoe , since it is now missing . 
The King's face became very serious when he heard this and he uttered a low whistle of surprise and regret . 
Why on earth did you not warn me of this ? he demanded . 
To all this Inga had no answer . 
He sat on the side of his bed , with hanging head , utterly disconsolate , and seeing this , Rinkitink had pity for his sorrow . 
Come ! cried the King let us go out at once and look for the shoe which I threw at the cat . 
It must even now be lying in the yard of the palace . 
This suggestion roused the boy to action . 
He at once threw open the door and in his stocking feet rushed down the staircase , closely followed by Rinkitink . 
But although they looked on both sides of the palace wall and in every possible crack and corner where a shoe might lodge , they failed to find it . 
After a half hour's careful search the boy said sorrowfully Someone must have passed by , as we slept , and taken the precious shoe , not knowing its value . 
To us , King Rinkitink , this will be a dreadful misfortune , for we are surrounded by dangers from which we have now no protection . 
Luckily I have the other shoe left , within which is the magic power that gives me strength so all is not lost . 
You are right ! cried Inga , and they hastened back to their bedchamber . 
On entering the room they found an old woman sweeping and raising a great deal of dust . 
Where is my shoe ? asked the Prince , anxiously . 
The old woman stopped sweeping and looked at him in a stupid way , for she was not very intelligent . 
Do you mean the one odd shoe that was lying on the floor when I came in ? she finally asked . 
Yes yes ! answered the boy . 
Show us the way to the dust heap at once ! commanded the boy , sternly , for he was greatly frightened by this new misfortune which threatened him . 
The old woman hobbled away and they followed her , constantly urging her to hasten but when they reached the dust heap no shoe was to be seen . 
This is terrible ! wailed the young Prince , ready to weep at his loss . 
We are now absolutely ruined , and at the mercy of our enemies . 
Nor shall I be able to liberate my dear father and mother . 
Well , replied Rinkitink , leaning against an old barrel and looking quite solemn , the thing is certainly unlucky , any way we look at it . 
I suppose someone has passed along here and , seeing the shoe upon the dust heap , has carried it away . 
But no one could know the magic power the shoe contains and so will not use it against us . 
I believe , Inga , we must now depend upon our wits to get us out of the scrape we are in . 
If your enemies do not know that you are powerless , they will fear you as much as ever . 
He sent for the shoemaker of King Gos , who soon brought him a new pair of red leather shoes that fitted him quite well . 
When these had been put upon his feet , the Prince , accompanied by the King , started to walk through the city . 
Wherever they went the people bowed low to the conqueror , although a few , remembering Inga's terrible strength , ran away in fear and trembling . 
They had been used to severe masters and did not yet know how they would be treated by King Gos's successor . 
Suddenly the charcoal burner espied a shoe lying upon the ground , just beyond the high wall of the palace and directly in his path . 
He picked it up and , seeing it was a pretty shoe , although much too small for his own foot , he put it in his pocket . 
And while the charcoal burner turned into the forest and trudged along the path toward his home , Inga and Rinkitink were still searching for the missing shoes . 
The charcoal burner , however , knew the wild forest well , and especially this part of it lying between the city and his home . 
It was the favorite haunt of the ferocious beast Choggenmugger , dreaded by every dweller in the Island of Regos . 
In former ages there had been many dragons in Regos , but Choggenmugger was so fond of dragons that he had eaten all of them long ago . 
There had also been great serpents and crocodiles in the forest marshes , but all had gone to feed the hunger of Choggenmugger . 
The people of Regos knew well there was no use opposing the Great Beast , so when one unfortunately met with it he gave himself up for lost . 
Then Nikobob gave himself up for lost and his heart almost ceased to beat . 
He believed there was no way of escape . 
No one ever dared oppose Choggenmugger . 
But Nikobob hated to die without showing the monster , in some way , that he was eaten only under protest . 
His success , however , encouraged him to strike again , and this time the huge scaly jaw of Choggenmugger was severed in twain and the beast howled in terrified rage . 
Nikobob took off his coat , to give himself more freedom of action , and then he earnestly renewed the attack . 
But now the ax seemed blunted by the hard scales and made no impression upon them whatever . 
The creature advanced with glaring , wicked eyes , and Nikobob seized his coat under his arm and turned to flee . 
That was foolish , for Choggenmugger could run like the wind . 
In a moment it overtook the charcoal burner and snapped its four rows of sharp teeth together . 
Yet it is singular' that never before did I discover how powerful a man I am . 
He met no further adventure and at midday reached a little clearing in the forest where stood his humble cabin . 
Great news ! I have great news for you , he shouted , as his wife and little daughter came to greet him . 
King Gos has been conquered by a boy Prince from the far island of Pingaree , and I have this day unaided destroyed Choggenmugger by the might of my strong arm . 
This was , indeed , great news . 
With this he drew the shoes from the pocket of his coat and handed them to Zella , who gave him a dozen kisses in payment and was much pleased with her gift . 
She admired the red leather and the graceful curl of the pointed toes . 
When she tried them on her feet , they fitted as well as if made for her . 
All the afternoon , as she helped her mother with the housework , Zella thought of her pretty shoes . 
They seemed more important to her than the coming to Regos of the conquering Prince of Pingaree , or even the death of Choggenmugger . 
When Zella and her mother were not working in the cabin , cooking or sewing , they often searched the neighboring forest for honey which the wild bees cleverly hid in hollow trees . 
Zella thrust her hand and arm into the space and found that the tree was full of honey , so she began to dig it out with a wooden paddle . 
Her mother , who held the pail , suddenly cried in warning Look out , Zella the bees are coming ! and then the good woman ran fast toward the house to escape . 
They swarmed about her in a dark cloud , and their angry buzzing was terrible to hear , yet the little girl remained unharmed . 
When she realized this , Zella was no longer afraid but continued to ladle out the honey until she had secured all that was in the tree . 
With such good fortune as we have had this day , said her mother , we shall soon gather enough honey for you to carry to Queen Cor . 
Usually she had but one pail . 
But now , said Zella , I shall be able to carry two pailsful to the Queen , who will , I am sure , give me a good price for it . 
Do you not agree with me , Nikobob ? she added , turning to her husband , the charcoal burner , who was eating his supper . 
I agree with you , he replied . 
If Zella must go to the City of Coregos , she may as well start to morrow morning . 
They were savage natured and quarrelsome men at all times , and their tempers had not improved since their conquest by the Prince of Pingaree . 
Moreover , they were eating up Queen Cor's provisions and crowding the houses of her own people , who grumbled and complained until their Queen was heartily tired . 
That boy is either a fairy or under the protection of fairies . 
Bah ! you are a coward , cried the Queen , tauntingly . 
I am not a coward , said the big King . 
I have killed in battle scores of my enemies by the might of my sword and my good right arm I have conquered many nations all my life people have feared me . 
But no one would dare face the tremendous power of the Prince of Pingaree , boy though he is . 
It would not be courage , it would be folly , to attempt it . 
Then meet his power with cunning , suggested the Queen . 
Take my advice , and steal over to Regos at night , when it is dark , and capture or destroy the boy while he sleeps . 
No weapon can touch his body , was the answer . 
He bears a charmed life and cannot be injured . 
Does the fat King possess magic powers , or the goat ? inquired Cor . 
I think not , said Gos . 
Well , mused the Queen , there is surely some way to conquer that slight boy . 
If you are afraid to undertake the job , I shall go myself . 
By some stratagem I shall manage to make him my prisoner . 
He will not dare to defy a Queen , and no magic can stand against a woman's cunning . 
I'm not afraid , answered the Queen . 
It is only soldiers and bullies who are cowards . 
In spite of this assertion , Queen Cor was not so brave as she was cunning . 
For several days she thought over this plan and that , and tried to decide which was most likely to succeed . 
Inga could not suspect what she was going to do , because she did not know herself . 
She intended to act boldly and trust to chance to win . 
One morning Queen Cor boldly entered a boat , and , taking four men with her as an escort and bodyguard , was rowed across the narrow channel to Regos . 
Prince Inga was sitting in the palace playing checkers with King Rinkitink when a servant came to him , saying that Queen Cor had arrived and desired an audience with him . 
Cor was a big woman , almost as tall as King Gos . 
She had flashing black eyes and the dark complexion you see on gypsies . 
Her temper , when irritated , was something dreadful , and her face wore an evil expression which she tried to cover by smiling sweetly often when she meant the most mischief . 
I have come , said she in a low voice , to render homage to the noble Prince of Pingaree . 
I am told that Your Highness is the strongest person in the world , and invincible in battle , and therefore I wish you to become my friend , rather than my enemy . 
Now Inga did not know how to reply to this speech . 
He disliked the appearance of the woman and was afraid of her and he was unused to deception and did not know how to mask his real feelings . 
This I hope soon to accomplish , and if you really wish to be my friend , you can assist me greatly . 
He does not seem very terrible and I suspect that King Gos and his warriors were frightened at nothing . 
Will you come ? At present , replied Inga , uneasily , I must refuse your kind invitation . 
I could not enjoy them while my poor parents are slaves , said the boy , sadly . 
Are you sure of that ? asked Queen Cor , and by that time she was close beside Inga . 
Suddenly she leaned forward and threw both of her long arms around Inga's body , holding him in a grasp that was like a vise . 
Then , still hugging Inga tightly , the Queen called aloud I've got him ! Bring in the ropes . 
Instantly the four men she had brought with her sprang into the room and bound the boy hand and foot . 
Next they seized Rinkitink , who was still rubbing his stomach , and bound him likewise . 
With a laugh of wicked triumph , Queen Cor now led her captives down to the boat and returned with them to Coregos . 
Well , Cor , what are you going to do with him ? inquired King Gos . 
I shall make him my slave , that he may amuse my idle hours . 
For he is a pretty boy , and gentle , although he did frighten all of you big warriors so terribly . 
The King scowled at this speech , not liking to be ridiculed , but he said nothing more . 
He and his men returned that same day to Regos , after restoring the bridge of boats . 
When her unwelcome guests had all gone back to Regos and the Queen was alone in her palace , she ordered Inga and Rinkitink brought before her and their bonds removed . 
They came sadly enough , knowing they were in serious straits and at the mercy of a cruel mistress . 
Inga had taken counsel of the White Pearl , which had advised him to bear up bravely under his misfortune , promising a change for the better very soon . 
With this promise to comfort him , Inga faced the Queen with a dignified bearing that indicated both pride and courage . 
Hereafter I intend you to be my page , which means that you must fetch and carry for me at my will . 
Do you understand me ? Inga bowed , but made no answer . 
It may be , however , that I can use you as a pincushion . 
What ! cried Rinkitink in horror , would you stick pins into the King of Gilgad ? Why not ? returned Queen Cor . 
You are as fat as a pincushion , as you must yourself admit , and whenever I needed a pin I could call you to me . 
Then she laughed at his frightened look and asked By the way , are you ticklish ? This was the question Rinkitink had been dreading . 
He gave a moan of despair and shook his head . 
I should love to tickle the bottom of your feet with a feather , continued the cruel woman . 
Please take off your shoes . 
Oh , your Majesty ! pleaded poor Rinkitink , I beg you to allow me to amuse you in some other way . 
I can dance , or I can sing you a song . 
Well , she answered , shaking with laughter , you may sing a song if it be a merry one . 
But you do not seem in a merry mood . 
I feel merry indeed , Your Majesty , I do ! protested Rinkitink , anxious to escape the tickling . 
But even as he professed to feel merry his round , red face wore an expression of horror and anxiety that was realty comical . 
Sing , then ! commanded Queen Cor , who was greatly amused . 
If there is , replied Rinkitink , it is a warning not to fool with tigers . 
The little Prince could not help smiling at this shrewd answer , but Queen Cor frowned and gave the King a sharp look . 
Oh , said she I think I know the difference between a tiger and a lapdog . 
But I'll bear the warning in mind , just the same . 
For , after all her success in capturing them , she was a little afraid of these people who had once displayed such extraordinary powers . 
This path was used by the King's messengers , and captured prisoners were also sent by this way from Regos to work in the underground caverns . 
Still Zella and her mother seldom wandered far from home , except on such errands as carrying honey to Coregos , and at these times Nikobob cautioned them to be very careful . 
She was a brave little girl and poor people are often obliged to take chances that rich ones are spared . 
When it is necessary to choose between the warriors and the wild beasts , said Nikobob , the beasts will be found the more merciful . 
The little girl had put on her best attire for the journey and her mother threw a blue silk shawl over her head and shoulders . 
Upon her feet were the pretty red shoes her father had brought her from Regos . 
Thus prepared , she kissed her parents good bye and started out with a light heart , carrying the pails of honey in either hand . 
For an hour or two she found the walking easy enough , but then the forest , which in this part was unknown to her , became badly tangled . 
The trees were thicker and creeping vines intertwined between them . 
She had to turn this way and that to get through at all , and finally she came to a place where a network of vines and branches effectually barred her farther progress . 
Zella was dismayed , at first , when she encountered this obstacle , but setting down her pails she made an endeavor to push the branches aside . 
At her touch they parted as if by magic , breaking asunder like dried twigs , and she found she could pass freely . 
At another place a great log had fallen across her way , but the little girl lifted it easily and cast it aside , although six ordinary men could scarcely have moved it . 
The child was somewhat worried at this evidence of a strength she had heretofore been ignorant that she possessed . 
And , naturally enough , the girl gained courage from these experiments and became confident that she could protect herself in any emergency . 
The girl laughed merrily at this incident and , picking up her pails , resumed her journey through the forest . 
Chapter Twelve The Excitement of Bilbil the Goat Our story must now return to one of our characters whom we have been forced to neglect . 
The temper of Bilbil the goat was not sweet under any circumstances , and whenever he had a grievance he was inclined to be quite grumpy . 
But this Bilbil did not like at all . 
The servants kept away from the room and Bilbil grew more hungry and more angry every hour . 
He tried to eat the rugs and ornaments , but found them not at all nourishing . 
There was no grass to be had unless he escaped from the palace . 
Nor did Bilbil know anything of the changed fortunes of his comrades until he heard shouts and boisterous laughter in the courtyard below . 
Then he ran to the head of the staircase and saw King Gos coming up the stairs followed by a long line of his chief captains and warriors . 
Finally King Gos scrambled out of the heap and rushed up the stairs again , very angry indeed . 
Then he kicked out so viciously with his heels that he soon freed himself and dashed out of the doorway of the palace . 
Stop him ! cried King Gos , running after . 
But the goat was now so wild and excited that it was not safe for anyone to stand in his way . 
None of the men were armed and when one or two tried to head off the goat , Bilbil sent them sprawling upon the ground . 
Most of the warriors , however , were wise enough not to attempt to interfere with his flight . 
Coursing down the street , Bilbil found himself approaching the bridge of boats and without pausing to think where it might lead him he crossed over and proceeded on his way . 
A few moments later a great stone building blocked his path . 
It was the palace of Queen Cor , and seeing the gates of the courtyard standing wide open , Bilbil rushed through them without slackening his speed . 
Bring them here to me ! she cried savagely . 
A good whipping may make them change their minds . 
So the slave driver went to fetch the rebellious ones and Queen Cor sat down to eat her breakfast , an ugly look on her face . 
Inga took the blows without shrinking or uttering a cry , although they stung his pride far more than his body . 
Prince Inga's eyes were dimmed with sorrowful tears when he discovered how his poor people had been abused , but his own plight was so helpless that he was unable to aid them . 
Fortunately the boy's mother , Queen Garee , was not among these slaves , for Queen Cor had placed her in the royal dairy to make butter . 
Why do you refuse to work ? demanded Cor in a harsh voice , as the slaves from Pingaree stood before her , trembling and with downcast eyes . 
Because we lack strength to perform the tasks your overseers demand , answered one of the women . 
Then you shall be whipped until your strength returns ! exclaimed the Queen , and turning to Inga , she commanded Get me the whip with the seven lashes . 
Why do you wish to see her ? I have honey to sell , answered the girl , who was Zella , just come from the forest . 
The Queen is very fond of my honey . 
You may go to her , if you so desire , said the boy , but take care not to anger the cruel Queen , or she may do you a mischief . 
Why should she harm me , who brings her the honey she so dearly loves ? inquired the child innocently . 
But I thank you for your warning and I will try not to anger the Queen . 
As Zella started to go , Inga's eyes suddenly fell upon her shoes and instantly he recognized them as his own . 
For only in Pingaree were shoes shaped in this manner high at the heel and pointed at the toes . 
Stop ! he cried in an excited voice , and the girl obeyed , wonderingly . 
Tell me , he continued , more gently , where did you get those shoes ? My father brought them to me from Regos , she answered . 
Are they not pretty ? asked Zella , looking down at her feet to admire them . 
One of them my father found by the palace wall , and the other on an ash heap . 
So he brought them to me and they fit me perfectly . 
By this time Inga was trembling with eager joy , which of course the girl could not understand . 
What is your name , little maid ? he asked . 
I am called Zella , and my father is Nikobob , the charcoal burner . 
Zella is a pretty name . 
I am Inga , Prince of Pingaree , said he , and the shoes you are now wearing , Zella , belong to me . 
They were not cast away , as your father supposed , but were lost . 
Will you let me have them again ? Zella's eyes filled with tears . 
Must I give up my pretty shoes , then ? she asked . 
They are the only ones I have ever owned . 
Inga was sorry for the poor child , but he knew how important it was that he regain possession of the Magic Pearls . 
So he said , pleadingly Please let me have them , Zella . 
See ! I will exchange for them the shoes I now have on , which are newer and prettier than the others . 
She wanted to please the boy Prince , yet she hated to exchange the shoes which her father had brought her as a present . 
If you will give me the shoes , continued the boy , anxiously , I will promise to make you and your father and mother rich and prosperous . 
I'll see if they will fit me , said Zella , taking off her left shoe the one that contained the Pink Pearl and beginning to put on one of Inga's . 
Just then Queen Cor , angry at being made to wait for her whip with the seven lashes , rushed into the room to find Inga . 
Then Cor espied the whip lying beside Inga and snatching it up she tried to lash him with it all to no avail . 
Then he stood up and , facing the furious but astonished Queen , said to her in a quiet voice Madam , please give me that whip . 
I won't ! answered Cor . 
I'm going to lash those Pingaree women with it . 
The boy seized hold of the whip and with irresistible strength drew it from the Queen's hand . 
But she drew from her bosom a sharp dagger and with the swiftness of lightning aimed a blow at Inga's heart . 
He merely stood still and smiled , for the blade rebounded and fell clattering to the floor . 
Then , at last , Queen Cor understood the magic power that had terrified her husband but which she had ridiculed in her ignorance , not believing in it . 
To gain time , she went back to the red domed chamber and seated herself in her throne , before which were grouped the weeping slaves from Pingaree . 
Inga had taken Zella's hand and assisted her to put on the shoes he had given her in exchange for his own . 
She found them quite comfortable and did not know she had lost anything by the transfer . 
Come with me , then said the boy Prince , and led her into the presence of Queen Cor , who was giving Rinkitink a scolding . 
To the overseer Inga said . 
Give me the keys which unlock these chains , that I may set these poor women at liberty . 
Don't you do it ! screamed Queen Cor . 
If you interfere , madam , said the boy , I will put you into a dungeon . 
By this Rinkitink knew that Inga had recovered his Magic Pearls and the little fat King was so overjoyed that he danced and capered all around the room . 
But the Queen was alarmed at the threat and the slave driver , fearing the conqueror of Regos , tremblingly gave up the keys . 
Inga quickly removed all the shackles from the women of his country and comforted them , telling them they should work no more but would soon be restored to their homes in Pingaree . 
Then he commanded the slave driver to go and get all the children who had been made slaves , and to bring them to their mothers . 
Rinkitink followed her , running as fast as he could go . 
Bilbil was also somewhat dazed by the unexpected encounter , but he continued his rush rather blindly and so struck poor Rinkitink , who was chasing after Queen Cor . 
They rolled over one another a few times and then Rinkitink sat up and Bilbil sat up and they looked at each other in amazement . 
Bilbil , said the King , I'm astonished at you ! Your Majesty , said Bilbil , I expected kinder treatment at your hands . 
You interrupted me , said Rinkitink . 
There was plenty of room without your taking my path , declared the goat . 
And then Inga came running out and said . 
Where is the Queen ? Gone , replied Rinkitink , but she cannot go far , as this is an island . 
However , I have found Bilbil , and our party is again reunited . 
You have recovered your magic powers , and again we are masters of the situation . 
So let us be thankful . 
Saying this , the good little King got upon his feet and limped back into the throne room to help comfort the women . 
Perhaps this was the woman the boy was seeking . 
Then they began a search throughout the island of Coregos , but could not find Inga's mother anywhere . 
Inga was much perplexed what to do and returned with his friends to the palace to talk the matter over . 
Rinkitink found Queen Cor's purse , which she had had no time to take with her , and gave Zella several gold pieces for the honey . 
Then the boy and the goat and Rinkitink and Zella went into a private room to consider what should be done next . 
Chapter Fourteen The Escape Our fault , said Rinkitink , is that we conquer only one of these twin islands at a time . 
When we conquered Regos , our foes all came to Coregos , and now that we have conquered Coregos , the Queen has fled to Regos . 
And each time they removed the bridge of boats , so that we could not follow them . 
What has become of our own boat , in which we came from Pingaree ? asked Bilbil . 
We left it on the shore of Regos , replied the Prince , but I wonder if we could not get it again . 
Why don't you ask the White Pearl ? suggested Rinkitink . 
That is a good idea , returned the boy , and at once he drew the White Pearl from its silken bag and held it to his ear . 
Come with me to my City of Gilgad , said the King , where you will be very welcome to remain forever . 
No , answered Inga , I must rescue my father and mother , as well as my people . 
Not until all are rescued will I consent to leave these islands . 
Quite right ! exclaimed Bilbil . 
On second thought , said Rinkitink , I agree with you . 
If you are careful to sleep in your shoes , and never take them off again , I believe you will be able to perform the task you have undertaken . 
This would give them an army to assist them and afterward they could march to Regos and compel Queen Cor to give up the Queen of Pingaree . 
Zella told them that they could go in their boat along the shore of Regos to a point opposite the mines , thus avoiding any conflict with the warriors of King Gos . 
This being considered the best course to pursue , they resolved to start on the following morning , as night was even now approaching . 
As for Bilbil , he wandered through the palace grounds and found some grass that made him a good dinner . 
Next morning the boy rose bright and early and found that Zella had already prepared a nice breakfast . 
When they reached the water's edge the boy advanced and clapped his hands together three times , as the White Pearl had told him to do . 
And in a few moments they saw in the distance the black boat with the silver lining , coming swiftly toward them from the sea . 
Presently it grounded on the beach and they all got into it . 
But Inga picked up the oars and began to row and at once the boat shot swiftly in the direction of Regos . 
First she thought it was this peak , and then she guessed it was that so considerable time was lost through her uncertainty . 
They finally decided to land and explore the country , to see where they were , so Inga ran the boat into a little rocky cove where they all disembarked . 
Once again they entered the boat and followed the winding coast south until they thought they had reached the right place . 
In the evening the stars came out in the sky and tipped the waves around their boat with silver . 
All around them was delightfully still save for the occasional snarl of a beast on the neighboring shore . 
Sing fiddle cum faddle cum fi do ! I said to Ned Do stop , Your Majesty ! pleaded Bilbil . 
You're making my head ache . 
Why didn't you choose a cheerful subject , instead of telling how a man who was dead lost his red head ? Really , Rinkitink , I'm surprised at you . 
I know a splendid song about a live man , said the King . 
Then don't sing it , begged Bilbil . 
They were not long in falling asleep and did not waken until daybreak . 
After a hurried breakfast , for Inga was eager to liberate his father , the boy rowed the boat ashore and they all landed and began searching for the path . 
Nevertheless , said the boy , we intend to go in and we shall come out whenever it pleases us to do so . 
I am the Prince of Pingaree , and I have come to liberate my people , whom King Gos has enslaved . 
Also the King commanded that we must keep the little Prince in the mines , and set him to work , together with his companions . 
Then let us obey the King , replied the other man . 
He suspected you were coming here and told us to capture you if we could . 
This report made the boy very anxious , not for himself but for his father , for he feared the King was up to some mischief . 
So he hastened to enter the mines and the guards did nothing to oppose him or his companions , their orders being to allow him to go in but not to come out . 
Here also hundreds of men were working , but the boy did not find his father amongst them , and so went on to a third cavern . 
The corridors all slanted downward , so that the farther they went the lower into the earth they descended , and now they found the air hot and close and difficult to breathe . 
Flaming torches were stuck into the walls to give light to the workers , and these added to the oppressive heat . 
The third and lowest cavern was the last in the mines , and here were many scores of slaves and many guards to keep them at work . 
Then he Teamed that King Kitticut had indeed been working in this very cavern until the evening before , when King Gos had come and taken him away still loaded with chains . 
Seems to me , said King Rinkitink , when he heard this report , that Gos has carried your father away to Regos , to prevent us from rescuing him . 
He may hide poor Kitticut in a dungeon , where we cannot find him . 
Perhaps you are right , answered the boy , but I am determined to find him , wherever he may be . 
Inga spoke firmly and with courage , but he was greatly disappointed to find that King Gos had been before him at the mines and had taken his father away . 
However , he tried not to feel disheartened , believing he would succeed in the end , in spite of all opposition . 
Turning to the guards , he said Remove the chains from these slaves and set them free . 
Then he attempted to place the chains on Inga , but the boy indignantly seized them and broke them apart as easily as if they had been cotton cords . 
They were very grateful , as you may suppose , and agreed to support Prince Inga in whatever action he commanded . 
Then they approached the first cavern and liberated all there . 
They readily agreed to obey him , and , arming themselves with iron bars and pick axes which they brought from the mines , the slaves began their march to the city . 
Indeed , they seemed uneasy and anxious , and when Inga met Captain Buzzub the boy asked if anything had happened in his absence . 
A great deal has happened , replied Buzzub . 
Our King and Queen have run away and left us , and we don't know what to do . 
Run away ! exclaimed Inga . 
Where did they go to ? Who knows ? said the man , shaking his head despondently . 
Destroy the bridge , or we are lost . 
While the men were tearing away the bridge of boats the Queen ran up to the palace of Gos , where she met her husband . 
That boy is a wizard ! she gasped . 
There is no standing against him . 
Oh , have you discovered his magic at last ? replied Gos , laughing in her face . 
Who , now , is the coward ? Don't laugh ! cried Queen Cor . 
It is no laughing matter . 
Both our islands are as good as conquered , this very minute . 
What shall we do , Gos ? Come in , he said , growing serious , and let us talk it over . 
So they went into a room of the palace and talked long and earnestly . 
The boy intends to liberate his father and mother , and all the people of Pingaree , and to take them back to their island , said Cor . 
He may also destroy our palaces and make us his slaves . 
I can see but one way , Gos , to prevent him from doing all this , and whatever else he pleases to do . 
What way is that ? asked King Gos . 
We must take the boy's parents away from here as quickly as possible . 
I have with me the Queen of Pingaree , and you can run up to the mines and get the King . 
Then we will carry them away in a boat and hide them where the boy cannot find them , with all his magic . 
Also we will say that as long as we are let alone his parents will be safe , although still safely hidden . 
I believe , Gos , that in this way we can compel Prince Ingato obey us , for he seems very fond of his parents . 
The nomes are our friends , and they possess magic powers that will enable them to protect the prisoners from discovery . 
If we can manage to get the King and Queen of Pingaree to the Nome Kingdom before the boy knows what we are doing , I am sure our plot will succeed . 
Gos gave the plan considerable thought in the next five minutes , and the more he thought about it the more clever and reasonable it seemed . 
So he agreed to do as Queen Cor suggested and at once hurried away to the mines , where he arrived before Prince Inga did . 
The next morning he carried King Kitticut back to Regos . 
While Gos was gone , Queen Cor busied herself in preparing a large and swift boat for the journey . 
She placed in it several bags of gold and jewels with which to bribe the nomes , and selected forty of the strongest oarsmen in Regos to row the boat . 
The instant King Gos returned with his royal prisoner all was ready for departure . 
Inga arrived at the city some hours later and was much distressed when he learned that his father and mother had been spirited away from the islands . 
I shall follow them , of course , said the boy to Rinkitink , and if I cannot overtake them on the ocean I will search the world over until I find them . 
But before I leave here I must arrange to send our people back to Pingaree . 
Chapter Sixteen Nikobob Refuses a Crown Almost the first persons that Zella saw when she landed from the silver lined boat at Regos were her father and mother . 
Nikobob and his wife had been greatly worried when their little daughter failed to return from Coregos , so they had set out to discover what had become of her . 
Inga invited the good people to the palace of King Gos , where he conferred with them , as well as with Rinkitink and Bilbil . 
Now that the King and Queen of Regos and Coregos have run away , he said , there is no one to rule these islands . 
Me ? cried Nikobob , astounded by this speech . 
I beg Your Highness , on my bended knees , not to do so cruel a thing as to make me King ! Why not ? inquired Rinkitink . 
I'm a King , and I know how it feels . 
I assure you , good Nikobob , that I quite enjoy my high rank , although a jeweled crown is rather heavy to wear in hot weather . 
With you , noble sir , it is different , said Nikobob , for you are far from your kingdom and its trials and worries and may do as you please . 
As I have done no harm to anyone and have tried to be a good and upright man , I do not think that I should be condemned to such a dreadful fate . 
Very well , replied Inga , we will say no more about your being King . 
I merely wanted to make you rich and prosperous , as I had promised Zella . 
Please forget that promise , pleaded the charcoal burner , earnestly I have been safe from molestation for many years , because I was poor and possessed nothing that anyone else could envy . 
But if you make me rich and prosperous I shall at once become the prey of thieves and marauders and probably will lose my life in the attempt to protect my fortune . 
Inga looked at the man in surprise . 
What , then , can I do to please you ? he inquired . 
Nothing more than to allow me to go home to my poor cabin , said Nikobob . 
Perhaps , remarked King Rinkitink , the charcoal burner has more wisdom concealed in that hard head of his than we gave him credit for . 
But let us use that wisdom , for the present , to counsel us what to do in this emergency . 
What you call my wisdom , said Nikobob , is merely common sense . 
I have noticed that some men become rich , and are scorned by some and robbed by others . 
Other men become famous , and are mocked at and derided by their fellows . 
But the poor and humble man who lives unnoticed and unknown escapes all these troubles and is the only one who can appreciate the joy of living . 
If I had a hand , instead of a cloven hoof , I'd like to shake hands with you , Nikobob , said Bilbil the goat . 
But the poor man must not have a cruel master , or he is undone . 
During the council they found , indeed , that the advice of the charcoal burner was both shrewd and sensible , and they profited much by his words . 
Inga gave Captain Buzzub the command of the warriors and made him promise to keep his men quiet and orderly if he could . 
They were then to await patiently the coming of King Kitticut or Prince Inga . 
My greatest worry , said the boy to his friends , is to know whom to appoint to take charge of this work of restoring Pingaree to its former condition . 
My men are all pearl fishers , and although willing and honest , have no talent for directing others how to work . 
While the preparations for departure were being made , Nikobob offered to direct the men of Pingaree , and did so in a very capable manner . 
So he directed his people to search through the storehouses of King Gos and to regain all their goods and chattels that could be found . 
Therefore , I have come to ask to go with my family in one of the boats . 
Soon as the last boat of the great flotilla had disappeared from the view of those left at Regos , Inga and Rinkitink prepared to leave the island themselves . 
The boy was anxious to overtake the boat of King Gos , if possible , and Rinkitink had no desire to remain in Regos . 
But , although the black boat moved very swiftly , it failed to overtake the barge which was rowed by Queen Cor's forty picked oarsmen . 
Rinkitink's country is separated from the country of the Nomes by a row of high and steep mountains , from which it extends to the sea . 
The nomes are a numerous and mischievous people , living in underground caverns of wide extent , connected one with another by arches and passages . 
The nomes were ruled , at the time of which I write , by a King named Kaliko . 
King Gos had expected to be pursued by Inga in his magic boat , so he made all the haste possible , urging his forty rowers to their best efforts night and day . 
To his joy he was not overtaken but landed on the sandy beach of the Wheelers on the morning of the eighth day . 
The forty rowers were left with the boat , while Queen Cor and King Cos , with their royal prisoners , who were still chained , began the journey to the Nome King . 
Therefore it was the second day of their journey before they climbed halfway up a rugged mountain and found themselves at the entrance of the Nome King's caverns . 
So King Gos stood still and shouted , and in an instant they were surrounded by a group of crooked nomes , who seemed to have sprung from the ground . 
One of these had very long ears and was called The Long Eared Hearer . 
He said I heard you coming early this morning . 
Another had eyes that looked in different directions at the same time and were curiously bright and penetrating . 
He could look over a hill or around a corner and was called The Lookout . 
Said he I saw you coming yesterday . 
Then , said King Gos , perhaps King Kaliko is expecting us . 
It is true , replied another nome , who wore a gold collar around his neck and carried a bunch of golden keys . 
The mighty Nome King expects you , and bids you follow me to his presence . 
This was a waiting room for visitors , and there their guide left them while he went to inform King Kaliko of their arrival . 
In an ivory throne sat a little round man who had a pointed beard and hair that rose to a tall curl on top of his head . 
He was dressed in silken robes , richly embroidered , which had large buttons of cut rubies . 
On his head was a diamond crown and in his hand he held a golden sceptre with a big jeweled ball at one end of it . 
This was Kaliko , the King and ruler of all the nomes . 
They must be carefully guarded , to prevent them from escaping , for they have the cunning of foxes and are not to be trusted . 
In return for the favor I am asking you to grant , I have brought Your Majesty valuable presents of gold and precious gems . 
He then commanded Kitticut and Garee to lay before the Nome King the bags of gold and jewels , and they obeyed , being helpless . 
Very good , said King Kaliko , nodding approval , for like all the nomes he loved treasures of gold and jewels . 
But who are the prisoners you have brought here , and why do you place them in my charge instead of guarding them , yourself ? They seem gentle enough , I'm sure . 
The prisoners , returned King Gos , are the King and Queen of Pingaree , a small island north of here . 
They are very evil people and came to our islands of Regos and Coregos to conquer them and slay our poor people . 
Also they intended to plunder us of all our riches , but by good fortune we were able to defeat and capture them . 
Therefore , as we have no magic to defend ourselves with , we have brought the prisoners to you for safe keeping . 
Your Majesty , spoke up King Kitticut , addressing the Nome King with great indignation , do not believe this tale , I implore you . 
It is all a lie ! I know it , said Kaliko . 
I consider it a clever lie , though , because it is woven without a thread of truth . 
However , that is none of my business . 
The fact remains that my good friend King Gos wishes to put you in my underground caverns , so that you will be unable to escape . 
And why should I not please him in this little matter ? Gos is a mighty King and a great warrior , while your island of Pingaree is desolated and your people scattered . 
In my heart , King Kitticut , I sympathize with you , but as a matter of business policy we powerful Kings must stand together and trample the weaker ones under our feet . 
By the way , he added , turning to the King of Regos , have these prisoners any connection with the Land of Oz ? Why do you ask ? said Gos . 
Because I dare not offend the Oz people , was the reply . 
I assure Your Majesty that the prisoners have nothing to do with the Oz people , Gos hastened to say . 
And Kitticut , being questioned , admitted that this was true . 
But how about that wizard you mentioned ? asked the Nome King . 
Oh , he is merely a boy but he is very ferocious and obstinate and he is assisted by a little fat sorcerer called Rinkitink and a talking goat . 
But King Gos assured him the talking goat had never been to Oz . 
But I have heard of him , and from all reports he is a jolly rogue , and perfectly harmless . 
However , in spite of your false statements and misrepresentations , I will earn the treasure you have brought me , by keeping your prisoners safe in my caverns . 
Make them work , advised Queen Cor . 
They are rather delicate , and to make them work will make them suffer delightfully . 
I'll do as I please about that , said the Nome King sternly . 
Be content that I agree to keep them safe . 
The bargain being thus made and concluded , Kaliko first examined the gold and jewels and then sent it away to his royal storehouse , which was well filled with like treasure . 
I shall lock your door , said Klik , so there is no need of your wearing those heavy chains any longer . 
He therefore removed the chains and left King Kitticut and his Queen alone . 
They were still captives but they believed they would be happier in the underground caverns of the nomes than in Regos and Coregos . 
Meantime , in the King's royal cavern a great feast had been spread . 
King Gos and Queen Cor , having triumphed in their plot , were so well pleased that they held high revelry with the jolly Nome King until a late hour that night . 
So the King bravely mounted the goat , who always grumbled but always obeyed his master , and the three set off at once for the caverns of the nomes . 
They traveled just as slowly as Queen Cor and King Gos had done , so when they were about halfway they discovered the King and Queen coming back to their boat . 
Then they continued their journey , glad that they had not again been forced to fight or quarrel with their wicked enemies . 
We might have asked them , however , what they had done with your poor parents , said Rinkitink . 
Never mind , answered Inga . 
I am sure the White Pearl will guide us aright . 
For a time they proceeded in silence and then Rinkitink began to chuckle with laughter in the pleasant way he was wont to do before his misfortunes came upon him . 
What amuses Your Majesty ? inquired the boy . 
The thought of how surprised my dear subjects would be if they realized how near to them I am , and yet how far away . 
Are you afraid , now that you are here ? asked Inga . 
A little , but not much , for they say the new Nome King is not as wicked as the old King used to be . 
Still , we are undertaking a dangerous journey and I think you ought to protect me by lending me one of your pearls . 
Inga thought this over and it seemed a reasonable request . 
Which pearl would you like to have ? asked the boy . 
Well , let us see , returned Rinkitink you may need strength to liberate your captive parents , so you must keep the Blue Pearl . 
And you will need the advice of the White Pearl , so you had best keep that also . 
But in case we should be separated I would have nothing to protect me from harm , so you ought to lend me the Pink Pearl . 
Where can you put it , to keep it safely ? he asked . 
In my vest pocket , replied the King . 
The pocket has a flap to it and I can pin it down in such a way that the pearl cannot get out and become lost . 
As for robbery , no one with evil intent can touch my person while I have the pearl . 
So Inga gave Rinkitink the Pink Pearl and the little King placed it in the pocket of his red and green brocaded velvet vest , pinning the flap of the pocket down tightly . 
They now resumed their journey and finally reached the entrance to the Nome King's caverns . 
Then allow yourselves to be conducted to the Nome King , who is now holding your father and mother captive . 
Inga followed these instructions and when Klik appeared in answer to his summons the boy requested an audience of the Nome King . 
I know what you've come for , said he , before Inga could speak . 
You want to get the captives from Regos away from me but you can't do it , so you'd best go away again . 
The captives are my father and mother , and I intend to liberate them , said the boy firmly . 
The King stared hard at Inga , wondering at his audacity . 
Then he turned to look at King Rinkitink and said I suppose you are the King of Gilgad , which is in the Kingdom of Rinkitink . 
You've guessed it the first time , replied Rinkitink . 
How round and fat you are ! exclaimed Kaliko . 
I was just thinking how fat and round you are , said Rinkitink . 
Really , King Kaliko , we ought to be friends , we're so much alike in everything but disposition and intelligence . 
Then he began to chuckle , while Kaliko stared hard at him , not knowing whether to accept his speech as a compliment or not . 
Can he really talk ? asked Kaliko , curiously . 
But the best thing he does is to scold . 
Talk to His Majesty , Bilbil . 
But Bilbil remained silent and would not speak . 
Do you always ride upon his back ? continued Kaliko , questioning Rinkitink . 
Yes , was the answer , because it is difficult for a fat man to walk far , as perhaps you know from experience . 
That is true , said Kaliko . 
Get off the goat's back and let me ride him a while , to see how I like it . 
Perhaps I'll take him away from you , to ride through my caverns . 
Rinkitink chuckled softly as he heard this , but at once got off Bilbil's back and let Kaliko get on . 
Perhaps this saved Kaliko's head from being cracked against the rock wall , but it was hard on the crown . 
Indeed , Inga could see that the King was very angry , and the boy knew that the incident was likely to turn Kaliko against the entire party . 
The Nome King sent Klik for another crown and ordered his workmen to repair the one that was damaged . 
While he waited for the new crown he sat regarding his visitors with a scowling face , and this made Inga more uneasy than ever . 
Inga and Rinkitink followed him through the doorway and found themselves standing on a balcony that overlooked an enormous domed cave so extensive that it seemed miles to the other side of it . 
All around this circular cave , which was brilliantly lighted from an unknown source , were arches connected with other caverns . 
Kaliko took a gold whistle from his pocket and blew a shrill note that echoed through every part of the cave . 
Instantly nomes began to pour in through the side arches in great numbers , until the immense space was packed with them as far as the eye could reach . 
All were armed with glittering weapons of polished silver and gold , and Inga was amazed that any King could command so great an army . 
They began marching and countermarching in very orderly array until another blast of the gold whistle sent them scurrying away as quickly as they had appeared . 
And as soon as the great cave was again empty Kaliko returned with his visitors to his own royal chamber , where he once more seated himself upon his ivory throne . 
I have shown you , said he to Inga , a part of my bodyguard . 
The royal armies , of which this is only a part , are as numerous as the sands of the ocean , and live in many thousands of my underground caverns . 
Think this over carefully , my boy , and try to realize that you are in my power . 
Therefore , as I do not wish to hurt you , I ask you to go away peaceably and let me alone . 
Forgive me if I do not agree with you , King Kaliko , answered the boy . 
However difficult and dangerous my task may be , I cannot leave your dominions until every effort to release my parents has failed and left me completely discouraged . 
Very well , said the King , evidently displeased . 
I have warned you , and now if evil overtakes you it is your own fault . 
The first of these rooms was given King Rinkitink , the second was Inga's and the third was assigned to Bilbil the goat . 
There was a swinging rock door between the third and second rooms and another between the second and first , which also had a door that opened upon the passage . 
You are not prisoners , you know , said Klik neither are you welcome guests , having declared your purpose to oppose our mighty King and all his hosts . 
But we bear you no ill will , and you are to be well fed and cared for as long as you remain in our caverns . 
Eat hearty , sleep tight , and pleasant dreams to you . 
Saying this , he left them alone and at once Rinkitink and Inga began to counsel together as to the best means to liberate King Kitticut and Queen Garee . 
The White Pearl's advice was rather unsatisfactory to the boy , just now , for all that the Voice said in answer to his questions was Be patient , brave and determined . 
In some places were great furnaces , where gold dust was being melted into bricks . 
In other rooms workmen were fashioning the gold into various articles and ornaments . 
In one cavern immense wheels revolved which polished precious gems , and they found many caverns used as storerooms , where treasure of every sort was piled high . 
Also they came to the barracks of the army and the great kitchens . 
There were nomes everywhere countless thousands of them but none paid the slightest heed to the visitors from the earth's surface . 
However , Klik presently came to them , laughing at their discomfiture , and led them back to their bedchambers . 
Before they went to sleep they carefully barred the door from Rinkitink's room to the corridor , but the doors that connected the three rooms one with another were left wide open . 
In the night Inga was awakened by a soft grating sound that filled him with anxiety because he could not account for it . 
Then he made his way to the opposite door , leading to Bilbil's room , to discover that also had been closed and fastened . 
And as the grating noise had ceased and the room now seemed stationary , he soon fell asleep again . 
When the boy wakened , after many hours , he found the room again light . 
So he dressed himself and discovered that a small table , containing a breakfast that was smoking hot , had suddenly appeared in the center of his room . 
Then he again went to the door which he thought led to Rinkitink's chamber and to his surprise the latch lifted easily and the door swung open . 
Before him was a rude corridor hewn in the rock and dimly lighted . 
It did not look inviting , so Inga closed the door , puzzled to know what had become of Rinkitink's room and the King , and went to the opposite door . 
Opening this , he found a solid wall of rock confronting him , which effectually prevented his escape in that direction . 
The boy now realized that King Kaliko had tricked him , and while professing to receive him as a guest had plotted to separate him from his comrades . 
One way had been left , however , by which he might escape and he decided to see where it led to . 
So , going to the first door , he opened it and ventured slowly into the dimly lighted corridor . 
When he had advanced a few steps he heard the door of his room slam shut behind him . 
He ran back at once , but the door of rock fitted so closely into the wall that he found it impossible to open it again . 
That did not matter so much , however , for the room was a prison and the only way of escape seemed ahead of him . 
Along the corridor he crept until , turning a corner , he found himself in a large domed cavern that was empty and deserted . 
Here also was a dim light that permitted him to see another corridor at the opposite side so he crossed the rocky floor of the cavern and entered a second corridor . 
This one twisted and turned in every direction but was not very long , so soon the boy reached a second cavern , not so large as the first . 
This he found vacant also , but it had another corridor leading out of it , so Inga entered that . 
It was straight and short and beyond was a third cavern , which differed little from the others except that it had a strong iron grating at one side of it . 
Standing in the third cavern , Inga saw what he thought was still another corridor at its farther side , so he walked toward it . 
This opening was dark , and that fact , and the solemn silence all around him , made him hesitate for a while to enter it . 
Scarcely had he taken two paces when a crash resounded back of him and a heavy sheet of steel closed the opening into the cavern from which he had just come . 
This was the end of the series of caverns and corridors . 
It was now that the horror of his situation occurred to the boy with full force . 
Next he twisted the steel door from its hinges , and creeping along the short passage , found himself in the third cave . 
The giant was unclothed and its limbs were thickly covered with coarse red hair . 
We will wrestle together , you and I , and if you succeed in throwing me I will let you pass through my cave . 
The boy made no reply to the challenge . 
He realized he was in dire peril and regretted that he had lent the Pink Pearl to King Rinkitink . 
But it was now too late for vain regrets , although he feared that even his great strength would avail him little against this hairy monster . 
Therefore the Prince resolved to employ other means to combat this foe , who had doubtless been placed there to bar his return . 
Retreating through the passage he reached the room where he had been chained and wrenched the iron post from its socket . 
It was a foot thick and four feet long , and being of solid iron was so heavy that three ordinary men would have found it hard to lift . 
Returning to the cavern , the boy swung the great bar above his head and dashed it with mighty force full at the giant . 
The end of the bar struck the monster upon its forehead , and with a single groan it fell full length upon the floor and lay still . 
When the giant fell , the glow from its eyes faded away , and all was dark . 
Cautiously , for Inga was not sure the giant was dead , the boy felt his way toward the opening that led to the middle cavern . 
The entrance was narrow and the darkness was intense , but , feeling braver now , the boy stepped boldly forward . 
Scarcely had he obtained this place of refuge when a mighty crash resounded throughout the cavern and the sound of a rushing torrent came from far below . 
Inga felt in his pocket and found several matches , one of which he lighted and held before him . 
By the light of another match he saw the opening at the other side of the cave and the thought came to him that possibly he might leap across the gulf . 
He could not stay where he was , that was certain , so he resolved to make the attempt . 
He took a long run through the first cave and the short corridor then , exerting all his strength , he launched himself over the black gulf of the second cave . 
Only pausing to draw one long breath of relief , Inga quickly traversed the crooked corridor that led to the last cavern of the three . 
But when he came in sight of it he paused abruptly , his eyes nearly blinded by a glare of strong light which burst upon them . 
When he had passed through this vault it had been entirely empty . 
Now the flat floor of rock was covered everywhere with a bed of glowing coals , which shot up little tongues of red and white flames . 
Indeed , the entire cave was one monster furnace and the heat that came from it was fearful . 
Inga's heart sank within him as he realized the terrible obstacle placed by the cunning Nome King between him and the safety of the other caverns . 
Neither could he leap over the glowing coals of the cavern that faced him , for it was much larger than the middle cavern . 
In this dilemma he feared his great strength would avail him nothing and he bitterly reproached himself for parting with the Pink Pearl , which would have preserved him from injury . 
He sat down and thought earnestly on the means of escape from his danger and at last a clever idea came to his mind . 
The boy picked out one large piece , and , exerting all his strength , tore it away from the wall . 
He then carried it to the cavern and tossed it upon the burning coals , about ten feet away from the end of the passage . 
So he leaped to the first rock and from there began jumping from one to the other in quick succession . 
Then , before he realized it , his feet were pressing the cooler rocks of the passage beyond and he rolled helpless upon the floor , gasping for breath . 
After resting a few minutes , the boy felt strong enough to go on . 
Chapter Nineteen Rinkitink Chuckles We will now relate what happened to Rinkitink and Bilbil that morning , while Inga was undergoing his trying experience in escaping the fearful dangers of the three caverns . 
So Rinkitink , having first made sure that the Pink Pearl was still in his vest pocket , willingly followed Klik , who ran on some distance ahead . 
But no sooner had Rinkitink set foot in the passage than a great rock , weighing at least a ton , became dislodged and dropped from the roof directly over his head . 
How careless ! exclaimed the little King , and waddled after Klik , who seemed amazed at his escape . 
Presently another rock above Rinkitink plunged downward , and then another , but none touched his body . 
Klik seemed much perplexed at these continued escapes and certainly Kaliko was surprised when Rinkitink , safe and sound , entered the royal cavern . 
Good morning , said the King of Gilgad . 
Your rocks are getting loose , Kaliko , and you'd better have them glued in place before they hurt someone . 
I asked Your Majesty to come here , said the Nome King , to show you a curious skein of golden thread which my workmen have made . 
If it pleases you , I will make you a present of it . 
With this he held out a small skein of glittering gold twine , which was really pretty and curious . 
Rinkitink took it in his hand and at once the golden thread began to unwind so swiftly that the eye could not follow its motion . 
Aha ! cried Kaliko this magic worked all right , it seems . 
Now , see here , Kaliko , said Rinkitink if you are trying to harm me or my companions , give it up , for you will never succeed . 
We're harm proof , so to speak , and you are merely wasting your time trying to injure us . 
You may be right , and I hope I am not so impolite as to argue with a guest , returned the Nome King . 
But you will pardon me if I am not yet satisfied that you are stronger than my famous magic . 
I appreciate Your Majesty's friendship , remarked Rinkitink , as calmly as if nothing had happened , but I am getting tired with standing . 
Will you kindly send for my goat , Bilbil , that I may sit upon his back to rest ? Indeed I will ! promised Kaliko . 
So Klik was sent to fetch Bilbil and presently returned with the goat , which was very cross this morning because it had not slept well in the underground caverns . 
Bilbil glared wickedly at King Kaliko , who moved uneasily in his ivory throne . 
Then the Nome King whispered a moment in the ear of Klik , who nodded and left the room . 
Please make yourselves at home here for a few minutes , while I attend to an errand , said the Nome King , getting up from the throne . 
I shall return pretty soon , when I hope to find you pieceful ha , ha , ha ! that's a joke you can't appreciate now but will later . 
Be pieceful that's the idea . 
Ho , ho , ho ! How funny . 
Then he waddled from the cavern , closing the door behind him . 
Well , why didn't you laugh when Kaliko laughed ? demanded the goat , when they were left alone in the cavern . 
Because he means mischief of some sort , replied Rinkitink , and we'll laugh after the danger is over , Bilbil . 
There's an old adage that says 'He laughs best who laughs last , and the only way to laugh last is to give the other fellow a chance . 
Where did that knife come from , I wonder . 
Then another knife became visible and another and another until all the space in the royal cavern seemed filled with them . 
Their sharp points and edges darted toward Rinkitink and Bilbil perpetually and nothing could have saved them from being cut to pieces except the protecting power of the Pink Pearl . 
As it was , not a knife touched them and even Bilbil gave a gruff laugh at the failure of Kaliko's clever magic . 
Perhaps for ten minutes the knives darted about them in bewildering fury then they disappeared as suddenly as they had appeared . 
The Nome King seemed greatly disappointed as he came in and resumed his seat on the throne . 
Said Rinkitink with a chuckle We've really had a peaceful time , Kaliko , although not the pieceful time you expected . 
I see now that your magic can protect you from all my arts . 
Your whole crown is not worth one of the valuable diamonds in my crown , answered the Nome King , but I'll take it . 
He left the room , accompanied by Klik , who had now rejoined his master , and by Rinkitink riding upon Bilbil . 
After traversing several of the huge caverns they entered one that was somewhat more bright and cheerful than the others , where the Nome King paused before a wall of rock . 
Then Klik pressed a secret spring and a section of the wall opened and disclosed the corridor where Prince Inga stood facing them . 
Tarts and tadpoles ! cried Kaliko in surprise . 
Turning over some of the following pages , Dorothy read how Inga had found the Magic Pearls and was rowing the silver lined boat to Regos to try to rescue his parents . 
So she went to Ozma and told the lovely girl Ruler of Oz all about Inga and Rinkitink . 
I think Kaliko is treating them dreadfully mean , declared Dorothy , and I wish you'd let me go to the Nome Country and help them out of their troubles . 
Go , my dear , if you wish to , replied Ozma , but I think it would be best for you to take the Wizard with you . 
Oh , I'm not afraid of the nomes , said Dorothy , but I'll be glad to take the Wizard , for company . 
And may we use your Magic Carpet , Ozma ? Of course . 
Put the Magic Carpet in the Red Wagon and have the Sawhorse take you and the Wizard to the edge of the desert . 
While you are gone , Dorothy , I'll watch you in the Magic Picture , and if any danger threatens you I'll see you are not harmed . 
Dorothy thanked the Ruler of Oz and kissed her good bye , for she was determined to start at once . 
They had both been there before and had conquered the nomes with ease , so they were not at all afraid . 
The Wizard , who was a cheery little man with a bald head and a winning smile , harnessed the Wooden Sawhorse to the Red Wagon and loaded on Ozma's Magic Carpet . 
This journey had been accomplished in a few minutes , although such a distance would have required several days travel had they not been walking on the Magic Carpet . 
On arriving they at once walked toward the entrance to the caverns of the nomes . 
Eggs may seem to you to be a queer weapon with which to fight , but the little girl well knew their value . 
The nomes are immortal that is , they do not perish , as mortals do , unless they happen to come in contact with an egg . 
For this reason the sight of an egg fills a nome with terror and he will do anything to prevent an egg from touching him , even for an instant . 
So , when Dorothy took her basket of eggs with her , she knew that she was more powerfully armed than if she had a regiment of soldiers at her back . 
He refused , however , to permit Inga to see or to speak with his father and mother , or even to know in what part of the underground caverns they were confined . 
Inga would not agree to this . 
He determined not to leave the caverns until he had liberated his father and mother , although he did not then know how that could be accomplished . 
Who is Dorothy ? asked Inga . 
Doesn't she like the nomes ? inquired the boy . 
It isn't that , said King Kaliko , with a groan , but she insists on the nomes being goody goody , which is contrary to their natures . 
Dorothy gets angry if I do the least thing that is wicked , and tries to make me stop it , and that naturally makes me downhearted . 
I can't imagine why she has come here just now , for I've been behaving very well lately . 
As for that Wizard of Oz , he's chock full of magic that I can't overcome , for he learned it from Glinda , who is the most powerful sorceress in the world . 
Even Bilbil pricked up his ears when he heard the Wizard of Oz mentioned , and the goat seemed much less surly , and more thoughtful than usual . 
As soon as she came in the little girl ran up to the boy Prince and seized both his hands . 
Oh , Inga ! she exclaimed , I'm so glad to find you alive and well . 
Inga was astonished at so warm a greeting . 
Making a low bow he said I don't think we have met before , Princess . 
No , indeed , replied Dorothy , but I know all about you and I've come to help you and King Rinkitink out of your troubles . 
Then she turned to the Nome King and continued You ought to be ashamed of yourself , King Kaliko , to treat an honest Prince and an honest King so badly . 
I haven't done anything to them , whined Kaliko , trembling as her eyes flashed upon him . 
No but you tried to , an' that's just as bad , if not worse , said Dorothy , who was very indignant . 
And now I want you to send for the King and Queen of Pingaree and have them brought here immejitly ! I won't , said Kaliko . 
Yes , you will ! cried Dorothy , stamping her foot at him . 
I won't have those poor people made unhappy any longer , or separated from their little boy . 
Why , it's dreadful , Kaliko , an' I'm su'prised at you . 
You must be more wicked than I thought you were . 
I can't do it , Dorothy , said the Nome King , almost weeping with despair . 
I promised King Gos I'd keep them captives . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Kaliko . 
Is that so ? I saw it in Glinda's Record Book , said Dorothy . 
So now you trot out the King and Queen of Pingaree as quick as you can . 
No , persisted the contrary Nome King , shaking his head . 
Ask me anything else and I'll try to please you , but I can't allow these friendly enemies to triumph over me . 
In that case , said Dorothy , beginning to remove the cover from her basket , I'll show you some eggs . 
Eggs ! screamed the Nome King in horror . 
Have you eggs in that basket ? A dozen of 'em , replied Dorothy . 
Then keep them there I beg I implore you ! and I'll do anything you say , pleaded Kaliko , his teeth chattering so that he could hardly speak . 
Send for the King and Queen of Pingaree , said Dorothy . 
Go , Klik , commanded the Nome King , and Klik ran away in great haste , for he was almost as much frightened as his master . 
It was an affecting scene when the unfortunate King and Queen of Pingaree entered the chamber and with sobs and tears of joy embraced their brave and adventurous son . 
Oho ! exclaimed the Wizard . 
The Wizard stooped down and gazed fixedly into the animal's eyes . 
Then he said , with a pitying sigh I see you are under an enchantment . 
Indeed , I believe you to be Prince Bobo of Boboland . 
Bilbil made no reply but dropped his head as if ashamed . 
This is a great discovery , said the Wizard , addressing Dorothy and the others of the party . 
I heard of this story long ago and know that a diligent search has been made for the enchanted Prince , without result . 
But I am well assured that , in the animal you call Bilbil , I have discovered the unhappy Prince of Boboland . 
The use ? repeated Rinkitink , puzzled . 
Yes , that's the trouble , said the Wizard . 
It is one of the most powerful enchantments ever accomplished , and the magician is now dead and the secret of the anti charm lost . 
Even I , with all my skill , cannot restore Prince Bobo to his proper form . 
This was willingly agreed to , for they all welcomed the chance to visit the famous Land of Oz . 
They filled the Red Wagon , which was still waiting for them , pretty full but the Sawhorse didn't mind that and with wonderful speed carried them safely to the Emerald City . 
So she hastily prepared several of her most powerful charms and then summoned her flock of sixteen white storks , which swiftly bore her to Ozma's palace . 
She arrived there before the Red Wagon did and was warmly greeted by the girl Ruler . 
Glinda the Sorceress and the Wizard of Oz took charge of Bilbil the goat and went to a private room where they were not likely to be interrupted . 
Glinda first questioned Bilbil long and earnestly about the manner of his enchantment and the ceremony that had been used by the magician who enchanted him . 
But because she was not positive of success she would have no one present at the incantation except her assistant , the Wizard of Oz . 
First she transformed Bilbil the goat into a lamb , and this was done quite easily . 
Next she transformed the lamb into an ostrich , giving it two legs and feet instead of four . 
Then she tried to transform the ostrich into the original Prince Bobo , but this incantation was an utter failure . 
Glinda was not discouraged , however , but by a powerful spell transformed the ostrich into a tottenhot which is a lower form of a man . 
This process of magic , successful though it was in the end , had required so much time that the banquet was now awaiting their presence . 
Bobo was already dressed in princely raiment and although he seemed very much humbled by his recent lowly condition , they finally persuaded him to join the festivities . 
But the jolly King assured the Prince that he had really enjoyed Bilbil's grumpy speeches and forgave him readily . 
Indeed , they all discovered the young Prince Bobo to be an exceedingly courteous and pleasant person , although he was somewhat reserved and dignified . 
Ah , but it was a great feast that Ozma served in her gorgeous banquet hall that night and everyone was as happy as could be . 
The Shaggy Man was there , and so was Jack Pumpkinhead and the Tin Woodman and Cap'n Bill . 
King Rinkitink was delighted with the quaint people of Oz and laughed and joked with the tin man and the pumpkin headed man and found Cap'n Bill a very agreeable companion . 
We're not afraid of anything , So let us gayly laugh and sing Until we seek repose . 
So let's forget the horrid strife That fell upon our peaceful life And caused distress and pain For very soon across the sea We'll all be sailing merrily To Pingaree again . 
As for prince Bobo , he had become so greatly attached to King Rinkitink that he was loth to leave him . 
They then made their way across the Nome Kingdom and the Wheeler Country , where no one molested them , to the shores of the Nonestic Ocean . 
There they found the boat with the silver lining still lying undisturbed on the beach . 
There were no important adventures during the trip and on their arrival at the pearl kingdom they were amazed at the beautiful appearance of the island they had left in ruins . 
All the houses of the people had been rebuilt and were prettier than before , with green lawns before them and flower gardens in the back yards . 
The marble towers of King Kitticut's new palace were very striking and impressive , while the palace itself proved far more magnificent than it had been before the warriors from Regos destroyed it . 
They all settled down very comfortably in the new palace and the Queen gathered her maids about her once more and set them to work embroidering new draperies for the royal throne . 
King Rinkitink occupied a royal guest chamber built especially for his use and seemed in no hurry to leave his friends in Pingaree . 
When King Kitticut was not too busy with affairs of state he loved to join his guest and listen to his brother monarch's songs and stories . 
No one knows what is going to happen next , and so we are constantly being surprised and entertained . 
My grandfather had a song which well expresses this and if you will listen I will sing it . 
Of course I will listen to your song , returned Kitticut , for it would be impolite not to . 
So Rinkitink sang his grandfather's song A mighty King once ruled the land But now he's baking pies . 
A pauper , on the other hand , Is ruling , strong and wise . 
A tiger once in jungles raged But now he's in a zoo A lion , captive born and caged , Now roams the forest through . 
A man once slapped a poor boy's pate And made him weep and wail . 
The boy became a magistrate And put the man in jail . 
A sunny day succeeds the night It's summer then it snows ! Right oft goes wrong and wrong comes right , As ev'ry wise man knows . 
King Kitticut sprang up at once , in great alarm , for he had much cause to fear strange boats . 
The others quickly followed him to the shore to see what invasion might be coming upon them . 
Inga was there with the first , and Nikobob and Zella soon joined the watchers . 
They are my people of Gilgad ! answered Rinkitink , wiping a tear from his eye . 
I recognize my royal standards flying from the boats . 
So , please , dear Inga , get out your pearls to protect me ! What can you fear at the hands of your own subjects ? asked Kitticut , astonished . 
But before his frightened guest could answer the question Prince Bobo , who was standing beside his friend , gave an amused laugh and said You are caught at last , dear Rinkitink . 
Your people will take you home again and oblige you to reign as King . 
Rinkitink groaned aloud and clasped his hands together with a gesture of despair , an attitude so comical that the others could scarcely forbear laughing . 
But now the boats were landing upon the beach . 
They were fifty in number , beautifully decorated and upholstered and rowed by men clad in the gay uniforms of the King of Gilgad . 
One splended boat had a throne of gold in the center , over which was draped the King's royal robe of purple velvet , embroidered with gold buttercups . 
You think so now , Your Majesty , but you will never do it , returned Pinkerbloo , rising and kissing the King's hand . 
Why won't I ? asked Rinkitink . 
Because you are much too tender hearted , Your Majesty . 
It may be it may be , agreed Rinkitink , sadly . 
It is one of my greatest failings . 
We could not appoint a new King , because we did not know but that you still lived so we set out to find you , dead or alive . 
After visiting many islands of the Nonestic Ocean we at last thought of Pingaree , from where come the precious pearls and now our faithful quest has been rewarded . 
And what now ? asked Rinkitink . 
Now , Your Majesty , you must come home with us , like a good and dutiful King , and rule over your people , declared the man in a firm voice . 
But you must begging Your Majesty's pardon for the contradiction . 
Kitticut , cried poor Rinkitink , you must save me from being captured by these , my subjects . 
'Tis a horrid fate ! moaned Rinkitink . 
I would die willingly , rather than be a King if it did not hurt so terribly to die . 
You will find it much more comfortable to reign than to die , although I fully appreciate Your Majesty's difficult position and am truly sorry for you , said Pinkerbloo . 
King Kitticut had listened to this conversation thoughtfully , so now he said to his friend The man is right , dear Rinkitink . 
It is your duty to reign , since fate has made you a King , and I see no honorable escape for you . 
I shall grieve to lose your companionship , but I feel the separation cannot be avoided . 
Then all the people of Gilgad shouted with delight and eagerly scrambled ashore to take their part in the festival . 
Those three days were long remembered in Pingaree , for never before nor since has such feasting and jollity been known upon that island . 
Rinkitink made the most of his time and everyone laughed and sang with him by day and by night . 
Farewell , dear Isle of Pingaree The fairest land in all the sea ! No living mortals , kings or churls , Would scorn to wear thy precious pearls . 
King Kitticut , 'tis with regret I'm forced to say farewell and yet Abroad no longer can I roam When fifty boats would drag me home . 
