Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com BEAUTY AND THE BEAST AND TALES OF HOME BY BAYARD TAYLOR . 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST THE STRANGE FRIEND JACOB FLINT'S JOURNEY CAN A LIFE HIDE ITSELF ? TWIN LOVE THE EXPERIENCES OF THE A. C. FRIEND ELI'S DAUGHTER MISS BARTRAM'S TROUBLE MRS . 
STRONGITHARM'S REPORT BEAUTY AND THE BEAST . 
A STORY OF OLD RUSSIA . 
I. We are about to relate a story of mingled fact and fancy . 
The facts are borrowed from the Russian author , Petjerski the fancy is our own . 
What is strangest in our narrative has been declared to be true . 
We are in Kinesma , a small town on the Volga , between Kostroma and Nijni Novgorod . 
The time is about the middle of the last century , and the month October . 
There was trouble one day , in the palace of Prince Alexis , of Kinesma . 
On a similar hill , to the westward , stood the church , glittering with its dozen bulging , golden domes . 
These two establishments divided the sovereignty of Kinesma between them . 
and the Archimandrite Sergius owned their souls . 
But the shadow of the former stretched also over other villages , far beyond the ring of the wooded horizon . 
The number of his serfs was ten thousand , and his rule over them was even less disputed than theirs over their domestic animals . 
The inhabitants of the place had noticed with dismay that the slumber flag had not been hoisted on the castle , although it was half an hour after the usual time . 
So rare a circumstance betokened sudden wrath or disaster , on the part of Prince Alexis . 
Long experience had prepared the people for anything that might happen , and they were consequently not astonished at the singular event which presently transpired . 
The last was to leave for St . 
Petersburg in a fortnight , and wished to have his departure preceded by a festival at the castle . 
The Princess Martha was always ready to second the desires of her only child . 
Between the two they had pressed some twenty or thirty thousand rubles out of the old Prince , for the winter diversions of the young one . 
It was no satisfaction that Boris resembled her in character . 
That weak successor to the sovereignty of Kinesma preferred a game of cards to a bear hunt , and could never drink more than a quart of vodki without becoming dizzy and sick . 
The Prince burst into a yelling , shrieking fit of laughter . 
The Princess Martha and Prince Boris laughed also and while the old man's eyes were dimmed with streaming tears of mirth , quickly exchanged nods . 
The sound extended all over the castle , and was heard outside of the walls . 
Father ! said Boris , let us have the festival , and Mishka shall perform again . 
Prince Paul of Kostroma would strangle , if he could see him . 
Vladimir ! exclaimed Prince Alexis . 
Thou shalt have it , my Borka ! Where's Simon Petrovitch ? May the Devil scorch that vagabond , if he doesn't do better than the last time ! Sasha ! Little Boris . 
A broad shouldered serf stepped forward and stood with bowed head . 
Lock up Simon Petrovitch in the southwestern tower . 
Send the tailor and the girls to him , to learn their parts . 
Simon Petrovitch was the court poet of Kinesma . 
He had a mechanical knack of preparing allegorical diversions which suited the conventional taste of society at that time but he had also a failing , he was rarely sober enough to write . 
Prince Alexis , therefore , was in the habit of locking him up and placing a guard over him , until the inspiration had done its work . 
The most comely young serfs of both sexes were selected to perform the parts , and the court tailor arranged for them the appropriate dresses . 
It depended very much upon accident that is to say , the mood of Prince Alexis whether Simon Petrovitch was rewarded with stripes or rubles . 
The matter thus settled , the Prince rose from the table and walked out upon an overhanging balcony , where an immense reclining arm chair of stuffed leather was ready for his siesta . 
He preferred this indulgence in the open air and although the weather was rapidly growing cold , a pelisse of sables enabled him to slumber sweetly in the face of the north wind . 
Along this road walked a man , wearing the long cloth caftan of a merchant . 
Prince Alexis started , and all slumber vanished out of his eyes . 
He leaned forward for a moment , with a quick , eager expression then a loud roar , like that of an enraged wild beast , burst from his mouth . 
He gave a stamp that shook the balcony . 
The traveller below had heard the cry , for it might have been heard half a mile . 
He seemed to have a presentiment of evil , for he had already set off towards the town at full speed . 
To explain the occurence , we must mention one of the Prince's many peculiar habits . 
The Prince vowed vengeance , on discovering the escape , and he was not a man to forget his word . 
Impelled by such opposite passions , both parties ran with astonishing speed . 
The merchant was the taller , but his long caftan , hastily ungirdled , swung behind him and dragged in the air . 
The short , booted legs of the Prince beat quicker time , and he grasped his short , heavy , leathern whip more tightly as he saw the space diminishing . 
They dashed into the town of Kinesma a hundred yards apart . 
The merchant entered the main street , or bazaar , looking rapidly to right and left , as he ran , in the hope of espying some place of refuge . 
The fugitive , therefore , kept straight on , notwithstanding a pond of water glittered across the farther end of the street . 
Although Prince Alexis had gained considerably in the race , such violent exercise , after a heavy dinner , deprived him of breath . 
He again cried , Stop ! But the merchant answered , No , Highness ! You may come to me , but I will not go to you . 
Oh , the villian ! growled the Prince , in a hoarse whisper , for he had no more voice . 
The pond cut of all further pursuit . 
Hastily kicking off his loose boots , the merchant plunged into the water , rather than encounter the princely whip , which already began to crack and snap in fierce anticipation . 
The latter coaxed and entreated , but the victim kept his ground . 
You lie , Highness ! he said , boldly . 
If you want me , come to me . 
Nay , seeing that the man did not move , you shall dine with me as often as you please . 
You shall be my friend by St . 
Vladimir , I like you ! Make the sign of the cross , and swear it by all the Saints , said the merchant , composedly . 
With a grim smile on his face , the Prince stepped back and shiveringly obeyed . 
The festival granted on behalf of Prince Boris was one of the grandest ever given at the castle . 
In character it was a singular cross between the old Muscovite revel and the French entertainments which were then introduced by the Empress Elizabeth . 
All the nobility , for fifty versts around , including Prince Paul and the chief families of Kostroma , were invited . 
Prince Alexis , in spite of this doubt , had been assured by Boris that the dramatic part of the entertainment would not be a failure . 
By noon the whole party were assembled . 
The Prince had felt the stick of the Great Peter upon his own back , and was ready enough to imitate any custom of the famous monarch . 
An orchestra , composed principally of horns and brass instruments , occupied a separate gallery at one end of the dining hall . 
Those intended for the princely table numbered two hundred , two for each guest . 
There were fewer servants for the remaining guests , who were gathered in a separate chamber , and regaled with the common black caviar , onions , bread , and vodki . 
At the second blast of trumpets , the two companies set themselves in motion and entered the dining hall at opposite ends . 
Prince Alexis entered first , with a pompous , mincing gait , leading the Princess Martha by the tips of her fingers . 
He wore a caftan of green velvet laced with gold , a huge vest of crimson brocade , and breeches of yellow satin . 
A wig , resembling clouds boiling in the confluence of opposing winds , surged from his low , broad forehead , and flowed upon his shoulders . 
As his small , fiery eyes swept the hall , every servant trembled he was as severe at the commencement as he was reckless at the close of a banquet . 
The Princess Martha wore a robe of pink satin embroidered with flowers made of small pearls , and a train and head dress of crimson velvet . 
Her emeralds were the finest outside of Moscow , and she wore them all . 
Her pale , weak , frightened face was quenched in the dazzle of the green fires which shot from her forehead , ears , and bosom , as she moved . 
Prince Paul of Kostroma and the Princess Nadejda followed but on reaching the table , the gentlemen took their seats at the head , while the ladies marched down to the foot . 
On one side of Prince Alexis the bear Mishka took his station . 
By order of Prince Boris he had been kept from wine for several days , and his small eyes were keener and hungrier than usual . 
It was difficult to say whether the beast was most man or the man most beast . 
They eyed each other and watched the motions of their lord with equal jealousy and the dismal whine of the bear found an echo in the drawling , slavering laugh of the idiot . 
The dinner commenced with a botvinia something between a soup and a salad of wonderful composition . 
It contained cucumbers , cherries , salt fish , melons , bread , salt , pepper , and wine . 
In the tank flapped and swam four superb sterlets , their ridgy backs rising out of the water like those of alligators . 
Great applause welcomed this new and classical adaptation of the old custom of showing the LIVING fish , before cooking them , to the guests at the table . 
the result of certain carefully measured supplies of brandy which Prince Boris himself had carried to the imprisoned poet . 
, between the handfuls which he crammed into his mouth . 
The guests roared with laughter , especially when a juggler or Calmuck stole out from under the gallery , and pretended to have designs upon the basin . 
Mishka , the bear , had also been well fed , and greedily drank ripe old Malaga from the golden dish . 
But , alas ! he would not dance . 
The domestics , secretly incited by the Grand Marshal , exhausted their ingenuity in coaxing him , but in vain . 
Finally , one of them took a goblet of wine in one hand , and , embracing Mishka with the other , began to waltz . 
The bear stretched out his paw and clumsily followed the movements , whirling round and round after the enticing goblet . 
The orchestra struck up , and the spectacle , though not exactly what Prince Alexis wished , was comical enough to divert the company immensely . 
But the close of the performance was not upon the programme . 
The impatient bear , getting no nearer his goblet , hugged the man violently with the other paw , striking his claws through the thin shirt . 
The dance measure was lost the legs of the two tangled , and they fell to the floor , the bear undermost . 
Then , releasing his hold , he sat up again , drank another bottle , and staggered out of the hall . 
Now the health of Prince Alexis was drunk , by the guests on the floor of the hall in Champagne , by those in the galleries in kislischi and hydromel . 
Half an hour later , the great red slumber flag floated over the castle . 
All slept , except the serf with the wounded arm , the nervous Grand Marshal , and Simon Petrovich with his band of dramatists , guarded by the indefatigable Sasha . 
Great silence fell upon the land , and continued unbroken so long as Prince Alexis and his guests slept the sleep of the just and the tipsy . 
By night , however , they were all awake and busily preparing for the diversions of the evening . 
The ball room was illuminated by thousands of wax lights , so connected with inflammable threads , that the wicks could all be kindled in a moment . 
A pyramid of tar barrels had been erected on each side of the castle gate , and every hill or mound on the opposite bank of the Volga was similarly crowned . 
Then the noises of Kinesma were not only permitted , but encouraged . 
Mead and qvass flowed in the very streets , and the castle trumpets could not be heard for the sound of troikas and balalaikas . 
, the company were ushered into the theatre . 
The hour of Simon Petrovitch had struck with the inspiration smuggled to him by Prince Boris , he had arranged a performance which he felt to be his masterpiece . 
Anxiety as to its reception kept him sober . 
The overture had ceased , the spectators were all in their seats , and now the curtain rose . 
The background was a growth of enormous , sickly toad stools , supposed to be clouds . 
, in hoops and satin petticoat , powdered hair , patches , and high heeled shoes . 
She held a fan in one hand , and a bunch of marigolds in the other . 
After a deep and graceful curtsy to the company , she came forward and said , I am the goddess Venus . 
I have come to Olympus to ask some questions of Jupiter . 
Thunder was heard , and a car rolled upon the stage . 
Jupiter sat therein , in a blue coat , yellow vest , ruffled shirt and three cornered hat . 
One hand held a bunch of thunderbolts , which he occasionally lifted and shook the other , a gold headed cane . 
He claimed from her , Venus , like favors for his son was it possible to grant them ? Jupiter dropped his head and meditated . 
Venus said , What I asked for Prince Alexis was for HIS sake what I ask for the son is for the father's sake . 
He was accustomed to heat and smoke , being the cook's assistant , and was sweated down to a weight capable of being supported by the invisible wires . 
He wore a yellow caftan , and wide blue silk trousers . 
His yellow hair was twisted around and glued fast to gilded sticks , which stood out from his head in a circle , and represented rays of light . 
He first bowed to Prince Alexis , then to the guests , then to Jupiter , then to Venus . 
The matter was explained to him . 
He promised to do what he could towards favoring the world with a second generation of the beauty , grace , intellect , and nobility of character which had already won his regard . 
He thought , however , that their gifts were unnecessary , since the model was already in existence , and nothing more could be done than to IMITATE it . 
The Graces were then summoned , and after them the Muses all in hoops , powder , and paint . 
Their songs had the same burden , intense admiration of the father , and good will for the son , underlaid with a delicate doubt . 
The close was a chorus of all the deities and semi deities in praise of the old Prince , with the accompaniment of fireworks . 
Sasha was dispatched to bring the poet , that he might receive his well earned praise and reward . 
But alas for Simon Petrovitch ? His legs had already doubled under him . 
He was awarded fifty rubles and a new caftan , which he was not in a condition to accept until several days afterward . 
The supper which followed resembled the dinner , except that there were fewer dishes and more bottles . 
When the closing course of sweatmeats had either been consumed or transferred to the pockets of the guests , the Princess Martha retired with the ladies . 
The others followed his example , and their revelry wore out the night . 
Such was the festival which preceded the departure of Prince Boris for St . 
It must be stated , as one favorable trait in the character of Prince Alexis , that , however brutally he treated his serfs , he allowed no other man to oppress them . 
All they had and were their services , bodies , lives belonged to him hence injustice towards them was disrespect towards their lord . 
Under the fear which his barbarity inspired lurked a brute like attachment , kept alive by the recognition of this quality . 
Now , Gregor , my child , said he , as he turned his horse's head , have a care in future , and play me no more dishonest tricks . 
Do you hear ? I shall come and take your business in hand myself , if the like happens again . 
Not ten days passed before the like or something fully as bad did happen . 
Gregor must have been a new comer in Kinesma , or he would not have tried the experiment . 
In an hour from the time it was announced , Prince Alexis appeared in the bazaar with a short whip under his arm . 
He dismounted at the booth with an ironical smile on his face , which chilled the very marrow in the merchant's bones . 
Ah , Gregor , my child , he shouted , you have already forgotten my commands . 
Nicholas , what a bad memory the boy has ! Why , he can't be trusted to do business I must attend to the shop myself . 
Out of the way ! march ! He swung his terrible whip and Gregor , with his two assistants , darted under the counter , and made their escape . 
Will your Lordships deign to choose ? Here are stockings and handkerchiefs of the finest . 
We understand how to measure , your Lordships , and we sell cheap . 
We give no change , and take no small money . 
Whoever has no cash may have credit . 
Every thing sold below cost , on account of closing up the establishment . 
There was great rejoicing in the community over the bargains made that day . 
When all was over , Gregor was summoned , and the cash received paid into his hands . 
Gregor gave a glance at the whip under the Prince's arm , and begged to be excused . 
Perhaps the animal acted as a mnemonic symbol , for Gregor was never afterwards accused of forgetfulness . 
If this trick put the Prince in a good humor , some thing presently occurred which carried him to the opposite extreme . 
Two ladies in waiting looked down from an upper window . 
The young fellow perceived them , and made signs to attract their attention . 
Then , in a freak of incredible rashness , he sang , in a loud voice , the first line of a popular ditty , and took to his heels . 
No one had ever before dared to insult the sacred quiet . 
The Prince was on his feet in a moment , and rushed into the corridor , shouting . 
Bring me the wretch who sang ! The domestics scattered before him , for his face was terrible to look upon . 
Who was it ? who was it ? yelled the Prince , foaming at the mouth with rage , as he rushed from chamber to chamber . 
At last he halted at the top of the great flight of steps leading into the court yard , and repeated his demand in a voice of thunder . 
The servants , trembling , kept at a safe distance , and some of them ventured to state that the offender could not be discovered . 
The Prince turned and entered one of the state apartments , whence came the sound of porcelain smashed on the floor , and mirrors shivered on the walls . 
Whenever they heard that sound , the immates of the castle knew that a hurricane was let loose . 
They deliberated hurriedly and anxiously . 
No one , however , was willing to be a Curtius for the others , and meanwhile the storm was increasing from minute to minute . 
Some of the more active and shrewd of the household pitched upon the leader of the band , a simple minded , good natured serf , named Waska . 
They entreated him to take upon himself the crime of having sung , offering to have his punishment mitigated in every possible way . 
He was proof against their tears , but not against the money which they finally offered , in order to avert the storm . 
The agreement was made , although Waska both scratched his head and shook it , as he reflected upon the probable result . 
They placed him at the bottom of the steps . 
The Prince descended until the two stood face to face . 
The others looked on from courtyard , door , and window . 
A pause ensued , during which no one dared to breathe . 
It was full three minutes before the Prince again spoke . 
He still held the whip in his hand , his eyes fixed and the muscles of his face rigid . 
All at once the spell seemed to dissolve his hand fell , and he said in his ordinary voice You sing remarkably well . 
Go , now you shall have ten rubles and an embroidered caftan for your singing . 
But any one would have made a great mistake who dared to awaken Prince Alexis a second time in the same manner . 
V. Prince Boris , in St . 
Petersburg , adopted the usual habits of his class . 
He dressed elegantly he drove a dashing troika he played , and lost more frequently than he won he took no special pains to shun any form of fashionable dissipation . 
His money went fast , it is true but twenty five thousand rubles was a large sum in those days , and Boris did not inherit his father's expensive constitution . 
He was presented to the Empress but his thin face , and mild , melancholy eyes did not make much impression upon that ponderous woman . 
He frequented the salons of the nobility , but saw no face so beautiful as that of Parashka , the serf maiden who personated Venus for Simon Petrovitch . 
He was excited by his new experience , but hardly happier . 
Athough but three and twenty , he would never know the rich , vital glow with which youth rushes to clasp all forms of sensation . 
He had seen , almost daily , in his father's castle , excess in its most excessive development . 
It had grown to be repulsive , and he knew not how to fill the void in his life . 
No wonder his savage old father looked upon him with contempt , for even his vices were without strength or character . 
For adventures , in the conventional sense of the word , he was not distinguished whatever came to him must come by its own force , or the force of destiny . 
One raw , gloomy evening , as dusk was setting in , he saw a female figure in a droschky , which was about turning from the great Morskoi into the Gorokhovaya Street . 
He noticed , listlessly , that the lady was dressed in black , closely veiled , and appeared to be urging the istvostchik to make better speed . 
The latter cut his horse sharply it sprang forward , just at the turning , and the droschky , striking a lamp post was instantly overturned . 
It was not inhumanity , but fear of the knout that hurried him away . 
Prince Boris looked up and down the Morskoi , but perceived no one near at hand . 
He then knelt upon the snow , lifted the lady's head to his knee , and threw back her veil . 
A face so lovely , in spite of its deadly pallor , he had never before seen . 
Presently she opened her eyes , and they dwelt , expressionless , but bewildering in their darkness and depth , upon his own , while her consciousness of things slowly returned . 
She strove to rise , and Boris gently lifted and supported her . 
She would have withdrawn from his helping arm , but was still too weak from the shock . 
embarrassed but he had self possession enough to shout , Davei ! at random . 
The call was answered from the Admiralty Square a sled dashed up the Gorokhovaya and halted beside him . 
Taking the single seat , he lifted her gently upon his lap and held her very tenderly in his arms . 
Where ? asked the istvostchik . 
Boris was about to answer Anywhere ! but the lady whispered in a voice of silver sweetness , the name of a remote street , near the Smolnoi Church . 
As the Prince wrapped the ends of his sable pelisse about her , he noticed that her furs were of the common foxskin worn by the middle classes . 
She was not more than nineteen or twenty years of age , and he felt without knowing what it was the atmosphere of sweet , womanly purity and innocence which surrounded her . 
The shyness of a lost boyhood surprised him . 
By the time they had reached the Litenie , she had fully recovered her consciousness and a portion of her strength . 
She drew away from him as much as the narrow sled would allow . 
You have been very kind , sir , and I thank you , she said but I am now able to go home without your further assistance . 
By no means , lady ! said the Prince . 
The streets are rough , and here are no lamps . 
If a second accident were to happen , you would be helpless . 
Will you not allow me to protect you ? She looked him in the face . 
She made no further objection perhaps she was glad that she could trust the elegant stranger . 
Boris , never before at a loss for words , even in the presence of the Empress , was astonished to find how awkward were his attempts at conversation . 
She was presently the more self possessed of the two , and nothing was ever so sweet to his ears as the few commonplace remarks she uttered . 
In spite of the darkness and the chilly air , the sled seemed to fly like lightning . 
Before he supposed they had made half the way , she gave a sign to the istvostchik , and they drew up before a plain house of squared logs . 
The two lower windows were lighted , and the dark figure of an old man , with a skull cap upon his head , was framed in one of them . 
It vanished as the sled stopped the door was thrown open and the man came forth hurriedly , followed by a Russian nurse with a lantern . 
The Prince stepped forward , instantly relieved of his unaccustomed timidity , and rapidly described the accident . 
The old nurse Katinka , had meanwhile assisted the lovely Helena into the house . 
The old man turned to follow , shivering in the night air . 
Suddenly recollecting himself , he begged the Prince to enter and take some refreshments , but with the air and tone of a man who hopes that his invitation will not be accepted . 
If such was really his hope , he was disappointed for Boris instantly commanded the istvostchik to wait for him , and entered the humble dwelling . 
The apartment into which he was ushered was spacious , and plainly , yet not shabbily furnished . 
A violoncello and clavichord , with several portfolios of music , and scattered sheets of ruled paper , proclaimed the profession or the taste of the occupant . 
Having excused himself a moment to look after his daughter's condition , the old man , on his return , found Boris turning over the leaves of a musical work . 
You see my profession , he said . 
I teach music ? Do you not compose ? asked the Prince . 
That was once my ambition . 
I was a pupil of Sebastian Bach . 
But circumstances necessity brought me here . 
Other lives changed the direction of mine . 
It was right ! You mean your daughter's ? the Prince gently suggested . 
Our story was well known in St . 
Petersburg twenty years ago , but I suppose no one recollects it now . 
My wife was the daughter of a Baron von Plauen , and loved music and myself better than her home and a titled bridegroom . 
She escaped , we united our lives , suffered and were happy together , and she died . 
Further conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Helena , with steaming glasses of tea . 
She was even lovelier than before . 
Her close fitting dress revealed the symmetry of her form , and the quiet , unstudied grace of her movements . 
Although her garments were of well worn material , the lace which covered her bosom was genuine point d'Alencon , of an old and rare pattern . 
Boris felt that her air and manner were thoroughly noble he rose and saluted her with the profoundest respect . 
In spite of the singular delight which her presence occasioned him , he was careful not to prolong his visit beyond the limits of strict etiquette . 
they could only look upon him as being , at best , a member of some family whose recent elevation to the nobility did not release them from the necessity of Government service . 
As the sled glided homewards over the crackling snow , he was obliged to confess the existence of a new and powerful excitement . 
Was it the chance of an adventure , such as certain of his comrades were continually seeking ? He thought not no , decidedly not . 
Was it could it be love ? He really could not tell he had not the slightset idea what love was like . 
It was something at least , that the plastic and not un virtuous nature of the young man was directed towards a definite object . 
The elements out of which he was made , although somewhat diluted , were active enough to make him uncomfortable , so long as they remained in a confused state . 
That Easter call was an era in his life . 
At the risk of his wealth and rank being suspected , he dressed himself in new and rich garments , and hurried away towards the Smolnoi . 
But Katinka's kiss seemed bitter , and he secretly rubbed his mouth after it . 
The music master came next grisly though he might be , he was the St . 
Peter who stood at the gate of heaven . 
Then entered Helena , in white , like an angel . 
He took her hand , pronounced the Easter greeting , and scarcely waited for the answer , Truly he has arisen ! before his lips found the way to hers . 
For a second they warmly trembled and glowed together and in another second some new and sweet and subtle relation seemed to be established between their natures . 
Poing de mariajes pour moix ! he wrote , but we will drop the original , I don't think of such a thing yet . 
Pashkoff dropped a hint , the other day , but I kept my eyes shut . 
Perhaps you remember her ? fat , thick lips , and crooked teeth . 
Natalie D said to me , Have you ever been in love , Prince ? HAVE I , MAMAN ? I did not know what answer to make . 
What is love ? How does one feel , when one has it ? They laugh at it here , and of course I should not wish to do what is laughable . 
Give me a hint forewarned is forearmed , you know , etc . 
She answered his question at length , in the style of the popular French romances of that day . 
She had much to say of dew and roses , turtledoves and the arrows of Cupid . 
It was very evident that the good Princess Martha had never felt nay , did not comprehend a passion such as she described . 
Prince Boris , however , whose veneration for his mother was unbounded , took her words literally , and applied the questions to himself . 
, yet the general conclusion was inevitable Helena was necessary to his happiness . 
Instead of returning to Kinesma for the summer , as had been arranged , he determined to remain in St . 
Petersburg , under the pretence of devoting himself to military studies . 
This change of plan occasioned more disappointment to the Princess Martha than vexation to Prince Alexis . 
It was not many weeks , in fact , before the expected petition came to hand . 
The Princess Martha had also foreseen it , and instructed her son how to attack his father's weak side . 
There was cursing at the castle when the letter arrived . 
Boris had boldly demanded twenty thousand rubles , in the desperate hope of receiving half that amount , and he had calculated correctly . 
Before midsummer he was Helena's accepted lover . 
Not , however , until then , when her father had given his consent to their marriage in the autumn , did he disclose his true rank . 
Leaving Boris to discover the exact form and substance of the passion of love , we will return for a time to the castle of Kinesma . 
Whether the Princess Martha conjectured what had transpired in St . 
Petersburg , or was partially informed of it by her son , cannot now be ascertained . 
Certain it is , that the demeanor of the latter towards her and his household began to change about the end of the summer . 
He seemed to have a haunting suspicion , that , in some way he had been , or was about to be , overreached . 
He grew peevish , suspicious , and more violent than ever in his excesses . 
There he was kept until almost flayed by the acid . 
It was ordered that these two delinquents should never afterwards be called by any other names than Crop Ear and Cherry . 
But the Prince's severest joke , which , strange to say , in no wise lessened his popularity among the serfs , occurred a month or two later . 
One of his leading passions was the chase , especially the chase in his own forests , with from one to two hundred men , and no one to dispute his Lordship . 
They were scattered over a slope gently falling from the dark , dense fir forest towards the Volga , where it terminated in a rocky palisade , ten to fifteen feet in height . 
The fires blazed and crackled merrily in the frosty air the yells and songs of the carousers were echoed back from the opposite shore of the river . 
The chill atmosphere , the lowering sky , and the approaching night could not touch the blood of that wild crowd . 
Their faces glowed and their eyes sparkled they were ready for any deviltry which their lord might suggest . 
Some began to amuse themselves by flinging the clean picked bones of deer and hare along the glassy ice of the Volga . 
Prince Alexis , perceiving this diverson , cried out in ecstasy , Oh , by St . 
It could become popular only among a people of strong physical qualities , and in a country where swift rivers freeze rapidly from sudden cold . 
Hence we are of the opinion that it will not be introduced into our own winter diversions . 
A spot is selected where the water is deep and the current tolerably strong the ice must be about half an inch in thickness . 
The performer leaps head foremost from a rock or platform , bursts through the ice , is carried under by the current , comes up some distance below , and bursts through again . 
Both skill and strength are required to do the feat successfully . 
Waska , Ivan , Daniel , and a number of others , sprang to the brink of the rocks and looked over . 
The wall was not quite perpendicular , some large fragments having fallen from above and lodged along the base . 
It would therefore require a bold leap to clear the rocks and strike the smooth ice . 
They hesitated , and no wonder . 
Prince Alexis howled with rage and disappointment . 
The Devil take you , for a pack of whimpering hounds ! he cried . 
Holy Saints ! they are afraid to make a reisak ! Ivan crossed himself and sprang . 
He cleared the rocks , but , instead of bursting through the ice with his head , fell at full length upon his back . 
O knave ! yelled the Prince , not to know where his head is ! Thinks it's his back ! Give him fifteen stripes . 
The second attempt was partially successful . 
One of the hunters broke through the ice , head foremost , going down , but he failed to come up again so the feat was only half performed . 
The Prince became more furiously excited . 
This is the way I'm treated ! he cried . 
take your turn , and let me see whether you are men . 
Only one of the frightened parasites had the courage to obey . 
On reaching the brink , he shut his eyes in mortal fear , and made a leap at random . 
The next moment he lay on the edge of the ice with one leg broken against a fragment of rock . 
This capped the climax of the Prince's wrath . 
He fell into a state bordering on despair , tore his hair , gnashed his teeth , and wept bitterly . 
They will be the death of me ! was his lament . 
Not a man among them ! It wasn't so in the old times . 
Was ever a man so treated ? The serfs hung down their heads , feeling somehow responsible for their master's misery . 
Some of them wept , out of a stupid sympathy with his tears . 
All at once he sprang down from the cask , crying in a gay , triumphant tone , I have it ! Bring me Crop Ear . 
He's the fellow for a reisak , he can make three , one after another . 
One of the boldest ventured to suggest that Crop Ear had been sent away in disgrace to another of the Prince's estates . 
Bring him here , I say ? Take horses , and don't draw rein going or coming . 
I will not stir from this spot until Crop Ear comes . 
With these words , he mounted the barrel , and recommenced ladling out the wine . 
Huge fires were made , for the night was falling , and the cold had become intense . 
Fresh game was skewered and set to broil , and the tragic interlude of the revel was soon forgotten . 
Towards midnight the sound of hoofs was heard , and the messengers arrived with Crop Ear . 
But , although the latter had lost his ears , he was not inclined to split his head . 
The ice , meanwhile , had become so strong that a cannon ball would have made no impression upon it . 
Taking the serf's head in his hands , he kissed him on both cheeks . 
Then he rode homeward through the dark , iron woods , seated astride on the barrel , and steadying himself with his arms around Crop Ear's and Waska's necks . 
The health of the Princess Martha , always delicate , now began to fail rapidly . 
She was less and less able to endure her husband's savage humors , and lived almost exclusively in her own apartments . 
She never mentioned the name of Boris in his presence , for it was sure to throw him into a paroxysm of fury . 
Floating rumors in regard to the young Prince had reached him from the capital , and nothing would convince him that his wife was not cognizant of her son's doings . 
The poor Princess clung to her boy as to all that was left her of life , and tried to prop her failing strength with the hope of his speedy return . 
One day , in the early part of November , she received a letter from Boris , announcing his marriage . 
She had barely strength and presence of mind enough to conceal the paper in her bosom before sinking in a swoon . 
The money he had received , he wrote , would be sufficient to maintain them for a few months , though not in a style befitting their rank . 
Under the weight of this imminent secret , the Princess Martha could neither eat nor sleep . 
Her body wasted to a shadow at every noise in the castle , she started and listened in terror , fearing that the news had arrived . 
Prince Boris , no doubt , found his courage fail him when he set about writing the promised letter for a fortnight elapsed before it made its appearance . 
Prince Alexis received it on his return from the chase . 
He read it hastily through , uttered a prolonged roar like that of a wounded bull , and rushed into the castle . 
One of the upper servants entered a chamber as the Prince was in the act of demolishing a splendid malachite table , which had escaped all his previous attacks . 
He was immediately greeted with a cry of , Send the Princess to me ! Her Highness is not able to leave her chamber , the man replied . 
How it happened he could never afterwards describe but he found himself lying in a corner of the room . 
When he arose , there seemed to be a singular cavity in his mouth his upper front teeth were wanting . 
We will not narrate what took place in the chamber of the Princess . 
His threats were terrible to hear she fell into convulsions , and before morning her tormented life was at an end . 
There was now something else to think of , and the smashing of porcelain and cracking of whips came to an end . 
The Archimandrite was summoned , and preparations , both religious and secular , were made for a funeral worthy the rank of the deceased . 
They remarked that his face was haggard , and that the fiery tinge on his cheeks and nose had faded into livid purple . 
The only sign of emotion which he gave was a convulsive shudder , which from time to time passed over his whole body . 
and one hundred priests headed the solemn funeral procession from the castle to the church on the opposite hill . 
There the mass for the dead was chanted , the responses being sung by a choir of silvery boyish voices . 
All the appointments were of the costliest character . 
Not only all those within the church , but the thousands outside , spared not their tears , but wept until the fountains were exhausted . 
Thus , by her death , the amiable Princess Martha was enabled to dispense more charity than had been permitted to her life . 
His remarks upon the duty of a Christian , upon brotherly love , humility , and self sacrifice , brought tears into the eyes of the listening priests . 
Can you not give me a place in your monastery ? he asked , turning to the Abbot . 
I will endow it with a gift of forty thousand rubles , for the privilege of occupying a monk's cell . 
Pray , do not decide too hastily , Highness , the Abbot replied . 
You have yet a son . 
The priests turned pale , but the Abbot devoutly remarked Encompassed by sorrows , Prince , you should humbly submit to the will of the Lord . 
Submit to Borka ? the Prince scornfully laughed . 
I know what I'll do . 
, after which , the trisna , a drink composed of mead , wine , and rum , was emptied to the health of the departed soul . 
There he lay until night for whenever any one dared to touch him , he struck out furiously with fists and feet . 
Finally he fell asleep on the floor , and the servants then bore him to his sleeping apartment . 
For several days afterward his grief continued to be so violent that the occupants of the castle were obliged to keep out of his way . 
The whip was never out of his hand , and he used it very recklessly , not always selecting the right person . 
Night and morning the serfs prayed upon their knees , with many tears and groans , that the Saints might send consolation , in any form , to their desperate lord . 
The Saints graciously heard and answered the prayer . 
Word came that a huge bear had been seen in the forest stretching towards Juriewetz . 
The sorrowing Prince pricked up his ears , threw down his whip , and ordered a chase . 
Sasha , the broad shouldered , the cunning , the ready , the untiring companion of his master , secretly ordered a cask of vodki to follow the crowd of hunters and serfs . 
There was a steel bright sky , a low , yellow sun , and a brisk easterly wind from the heights of the Ural . 
As the crisp snow began to crunch under the Prince's sled , his followers saw the old expression come back to his face . 
With song and halloo and blast of horns , they swept away into the forest . 
Saint John the Hunter must have been on guard over Russia that day . 
The great bear was tracked , and after a long and exciting chase , fell by the hand of Prince Alexis himself . 
the cask of vodki rolled into its place . 
When the serfs saw the Prince mount astride of it , with his ladle in his hand , they burst into shouts of extravagant joy . 
came fervently from the bearded lips of those hard , rough , obedient children . 
They tumbled headlong over each other , in their efforts to drink first from the ladle , to clasp the knees or kiss the hands of the restored Prince . 
And the dawn was glimmering against the eastern stars , as they took the way to the castle , making the ghostly fir woods ring with shout and choric song . 
Nevertheless , Prince Alexis was no longer the same man his giant strength and furious appetite were broken . 
Then the serfs , too , became silent , and stood still , awaiting a change . 
The gloomy mood passed away as suddenly . 
He would start , look about him , and say , in a melancholy voice , Have I frightened you , my children ? It seems to me that I am getting old . 
Ah , yes , we must all die , one day . 
But we need not think about it , until the time comes . 
Since the day when the Princess Martha was buried , the Prince had not again spoken of marriage . 
No one , of course , dared to mention the name of Boris in his presence . 
The young Prince had , in reality , become the happy husband of Helena . 
His love for her had grown to be a shaping and organizing influence , without which his nature would have fallen into its former confusion . 
He became restless and abstracted , until his wife , who by this time clearly comprehended the nature of his trouble , had secretly decided how it must be met . 
The slender hoard of the old music master , with a few thousand rubles from Prince Boris , sufficed for his modest maintenance . 
Summer was at hand , and the court had already removed to Oranienbaum . 
In a few weeks the capital would be deserted . 
Shall we go to Germany with your father ? asked Boris , as he sat at a window with Helena , enjoying the long twilight . 
No , my Boris , she answered we will go to Kinesma . 
But Helena , golubchik , mon ange , are you in earnest ? Yes , my Boris . 
The last letter from your our cousin Nadejda convinces me that the step must be taken . 
Prince Alexis has grown much older since your mother's death he is lonely and unhappy . 
He may not welcome us , but he will surely suffer us to come to him and we must then begin the work of reconciliation . 
Yes , said he , hesitatingly , you are right . 
But I know his violence and recklessness , as you do not . 
For myself , alone , I am willing to meet him yet I fear for your sake . 
Would you not tremble to encounter a maddened and brutal mujik ? then how much more to meet Alexis Pavlovitch of Kinesma ! I do not and shall not tremble , she replied . 
It is not your marriage that has estranged your father , but your marriage with ME . 
Having been , unconsciously , the cause of the trouble , I shall deliberately , and as a sacred duty , attempt to remove it . 
Let us go to Kinesma , as humble , penitent children , and cast ourselves upon your father's mercy . 
Be it so , then ! cried Boris , with a mingled feeling of relief and anxiety . 
He was not unwilling that the attempt should be made , especially since it was his wife's desire but he knew his father too well to anticipate immediate success . 
All threatening POSSIBILITIES suggested themselves to his mind all forms of insult and outrage which he had seen perpetrated at Kinesma filled his memory . 
The suspense became at last worse than any probable reality . 
He wrote to his father , announcing a speedy visit from himself and his wife and two days afterwards the pair left St . 
Petersburg in a large travelling kibitka . 
X. When Prince Alexis received his son's letter , an expression of fierce , cruel delight crept over his face , and there remained , horribly illuminating its haggard features . 
The latter had the useful habit , notwithstanding his stupid face , of picking up the fragments of soliloquy which the Prince dropped , and answering them as if talking to himself . 
Thus he improved upon and perfected many a hint of cruelty , and was too discreet ever to dispute his master's claim to the invention . 
Sasha , we may be sure , was busy with his devil's work that night . 
The next morning the stewards and agents of Prince Alexis , in castle , village , and field , were summoned to his presence . 
Hark ye ! said he Borka and his trumpery wife send me word that they will be here to morrow . 
See to it that every man , woman , and child , for ten versts out on the Moskovskoi road , knows of their coming . 
Let it be known that whoever uncovers his head before them shall uncover his back for a hundred lashes . 
Whoever shall insult them has my pardon in advance . 
His eyes were bloodshot , and sparkled with a strange light . 
What the stewards had heard was plain enough but that something more terrible than insult was yet held in reserve they did not doubt . 
It was safe , therefore , not only to fulfil , but to exceed , the letter of their instructions . 
Before night the whole population were acquainted with their duties and an unusual mood of expectancy , not unmixed with brutish glee , fell upon Kinesma . 
They were both silent and slightly pale at first , but now began to exchange mechanical remarks , to divert each other's thoughts from the coming reception . 
Here are the fields of Kinesma at last ! exclaimed Prince Boris . 
We shall see the church and castle from the top of that hill in the distance . 
Helena laughed heartily at this singular response to the greeting but Boris , after the first astonishment was over , looked terrified . 
That was done by order , said he , with a bitter smile . 
The old bear stretches his claws out . 
Dare you try his hug ? I do not fear , she answered , her face was calm . 
Every serf they passed obeyed the order of Prince Alexis according to his own idea of disrespect . 
One turned his back another made contemptuous grimaces and noises another sang a vulgar song another spat upon the ground or held his nostrils . 
Nowhere was a cap raised , or the stealthy welcome of a friendly glance given . 
The Princess Helena met these insults with a calm , proud indifference . 
Boris felt them more keenly for the fields and hills were prospectively his property , and so also were the brutish peasants . 
It was a form of chastisement which he had never before experienced , and knew not how to resist . 
The affront of an entire community was an offence against which he felt himself to be helpless . 
As they approached the town , the demonstrations of insolence were redoubled . 
About two hundred boys , between the ages of ten and fourteen , awaited them on the hill below the church , forming themselves into files on either side of the road . 
These imps had been instructed to stick out their tongues in derision , and howl , as the carriage passed between them . 
Howls , hootings , and hisses were heard on all sides bouquets of nettles and vile weeds were flung to them even wreaths of spoiled fish dropped from the windows . 
It was impossible to pass through this ordeal with indifference . 
Boris , finding that his kindly greetings were thrown away , that even his old acquaintances in the bazaar howled like the rest , sat with head bowed and despair in his heart . 
The beautiful eyes of Helena were heavy with tears but she no longer trembled , for she knew the crisis was yet to come . 
A frightened hush filled the castle . 
Sasha and the castle steward had taken the wise precaution to summon a physician and a priest , provided with the utensils for extreme unction . 
Both of these persons had been smuggled in through a rear entrance , and were kept concealed until their services should be required . 
The noise of wheels was heard outside the gate , which stood invitingly open . 
Prince Alexis clutched his whip with iron fingers , and unconsciously took the attitude of a wild beast about to spring from its ambush . 
Now the hard clatter of hoofs and the rumbling , of wheels echoed from the archway , and the kibitka rolled into the courtyard . 
It stopped near the foot of the grand staircase . 
fall behind her , and stepped upon the pavement . 
Prince Alexis had already reached the last step , and but a few feet separated them . 
He stopped as if struck by lightning , his body still retaining , in every limb , the impress of motion . 
She , too , stood motionless , a form of simple and perfect grace , and met his gaze with soft , imploring , yet courageous and trustful eyes . 
The women who watched the scene from the galleries above always declared that an invisible saint stood beside her in that moment , and surrounded her with a dazzling glory . 
The few moments during which the suspense of a hundred hearts hung upon those encountering eyes seemed an eternity . 
Prince Alexis did not move , but he began to tremble from head to foot . 
His fingers relaxed , and the whip fell ringing upon the pavement . 
The wild fire of his eyes changed from wrath into an ecstasy as intense , and a piercing cry of mingled wonder , admiration and delight burst from his throat . 
At that cry Boris rushed forward and knelt at his feet . 
Helena , clasping her fairest hands , sank beside her husband , with upturned face , as if seeking the old man's eyes , and perfect the miracle she had wrought . 
The sight of that sweet face , so near his own , tamed the last lurking ferocity of the beast . 
And , father , my Boris , too ! said she . 
The pure liquid voice sent thrills of exquisite delight through his whole frame . 
He embraced and blessed Boris , and then , throwing an arm around each , held them to his breast , and wept passionately upon their heads . 
By this time the whole castle overflowed with weeping . 
Insult was changed into tenderness in a moment . 
Those who had barked or stuck out their tongues at Boris rushed up to kiss his boots a thousand terms of endearment were showered upon him . 
Still clasping his children to his breast , Prince Alexis mounted the steps with them . 
By night all Kinesma was drunk . 
In the castle a superb banquet was improvised . 
Music , guests , and rare dishes were brought together with wonderful speed , and the choicest wines of the cellar were drawn upon . 
The golden dishes were set before her , and the famous family emeralds in accordance with the command of Prince Alexis gleamed among her dark hair and flashed around her milk white throat . 
Her beauty was of a kind so rare in Russia that it silenced all question and bore down all rivalry . 
Every one acknowledged that so lovely a creature had never before been seen . 
Faith , the boy has eyes ! the old Prince constantly repeated , as he turned away from a new stare of admiration , down the table . 
The guests noticed a change in the character of the entertainment . 
The idiot , in his tow shirt , had been crammed to repletion in the kitchen , and was now asleep in the stable . 
Razboi , the new bear , the successor of the slaughtered Mishka , was chained up out of hearing . 
The jugglers , tumblers , and Calmucks still occupied their old place under the gallery , but their performances were of a highly decorous character . 
Every one found this natural enough for they were equally impressed with the elegance and purity of the young wife . 
Have I done my part , my Boris ? she asked . 
You are an angel ! he cried . 
It was a miracle ! My life was not worth a copek , and I feared for yours . 
If it will only last ! if it will only last ! It WILL , said she . 
His accesses of blind rage seemed to be at an end . 
A powerful , unaccustomed feeling of content subdued his strong nature , and left its impress on his voice and features . 
He joked and sang with his children , but not with the wild recklessness of the days of reisaks and indiscriminate floggings . 
Both his exactions and his favors diminished in quantity . 
Week after week passed by , and there was no sign of any return to his savage courses . 
Nothing annoyed him so much as a reference to his former way of life , in the presence of the Princess Helena . 
The promise of another event added to his happiness Helena would soon become a mother . 
When the important day at last arrived the slumber flag was instantly hoisted , and no mouse dared to squeak in Kinesma until the cannon announced the advent of a new soul . 
That night Prince Alexis lay down in the corridor , outside of Helena's door he glared fiercely at the nurse as she entered with the birth posset for the young mother . 
No one else was allowed to pass , that night , nor the next . 
Four days afterwards , Sasha , having a message to the Princess , and supposing the old man to be asleep , attempted to step noiselessly over his body . 
In a twinkle the Prince's teeth fastened themselves in the serf's leg , and held him with the tenacity of a bull dog . 
Sasha did not dare to cry out he stood , writhing with pain , until the strong jaws grew weary of their hold , and then crawled away to dress the bleeding wound . 
After that , no one tried to break the Prince's guard . 
The christening was on a magnificent scale . 
Prince Paul of Kostroma was godfather , and gave the babe the name of Alexis . 
As the Prince had paid his respects to Helena just before the ceremony , it may be presumed that the name was not of his own inspiration . 
The father and mother were not allowed to be present , but they learned that the grandfather had comported himself throughout with great dignity and propriety . 
Prince Alexis was never tired of gazing at his grandson and namesake . 
He has more of his mother than of Boris , he would say . 
He'll be a proper Prince of Kinesma , my daughter , and we owe it to you . 
Helena smiled , and gave him a grateful glance in return . 
She had had her secret fears as to the complete conversion of Prince Alexis but now she saw in this babe a new spell whereby he might be bound . 
Alas ! the proud predictions of Prince Alexis , and the protection of the sacred amulet , were alike unavailing . 
The babe sickened , wasted away , and died in less than two months after its birth . 
There was great and genuine sorrow among the serfs of Kinesma . 
Sorrow , in such natures as his , exasperates instead of chastening they knew him well enough to recognize the danger . 
At first the old man's grief appeared to be of a stubborn , harmless nature . 
As soon as the funeral ceremonies were over he betook himself to his bed , and there lay for two days and nights , without eating a morsel of food . 
The poor Princess Helena , almost prostrated by the blow , mourned alone , or with Boris , in her own apartments . 
Her influence , no longer kept alive by her constant presence , as formerly , began to decline . 
When the old Prince aroused somewhat from his stupor , it was not meat that he demanded , but drink and he drank to angry excess . 
Day after day the habit resumed its ancient sway , and the whip and the wild beast yell returned with it . 
Boris would have spared his wife the knowledge of this miserable relapse , in her present sorrow , but the information soon reached her in other ways . 
She saw the necessity of regaining , by a powerful effort , what she had lost . 
She therefore took her accustomed place at the table , and resumed her inspection of household matters . 
The Princess Helena felt that her beauty no longer possessed the potency of its first surprise . 
It must now be a contest of nature with nature , spiritual with animal power . 
The struggle would be perilous , she foresaw , but she did not shrink she rather sought the earliest occasion to provoke it . 
Some slight disappointment brought on one of the old paroxysms of rage , and the ox like bellow of Prince Alexis rang through the castle . 
Boris was absent , but Helena delayed not a moment to venture into his father's presence . 
She found him in a hall over looking the court yard , with his terrible whip in his hand , giving orders for the brutal punishment of some scores of serfs . 
The sight of her , coming thus unexpectedly upon him , did not seem to produce the least effect . 
Father ! she cried , in an earnest , piteous tone , what is it you do ? Away , witch ! he yelled . 
I am the master in Kinesma , not thou ! Away , or The fierceness with which he swung and cracked the whip was more threatening than any words . 
Perhaps she grew a shade paler , perhaps her hands were tightly clasped in order that they might not tremble but she did not flinch from the encounter . 
She moved a step nearer , fixed her gaze upon his flashing eyes , and said , in a low , firm voice It is true , father , you are master here . 
It is easy to rule over those poor , submissive slaves . 
But you are not master over yourself you are lashed and trampled upon by evil passions , and as much a slave as any of these . 
Be not weak , my father , but strong ! An expression of bewilderment came into his face . 
No such words had ever before been addressed to him , and he knew not how to reply to them . 
For a minute it seemed as if she were about to re establish her ascendancy then the stubborn resistance of the beast returned . 
Among the portraits in the hall was one of the deceased Princess Martha . 
Life and death were evenly balanced . 
For an instant the Princess became deadly pale , and a sickening fear shot through her heart . 
She could not understand the effect of her words her mind was paralyzed , and what followed came without her conscious volition . 
Not retreating a step , not removing her eyes from the terrible picture before her , she suddenly opened her lips and sang . 
Her voice of exquisite purity , power , and sweetness , filled the old hall and overflowed it , throbbing in scarcely weakened vibrations through court yard and castle . 
The melody was a prayer the cry of a tortured heart for pardon and repose and she sang it with almost supernatural expression . 
Every sound in the castle was hushed the serfs outside knelt and uncovered their heads . 
The Princess could never afterwards describe , or more than dimly recall , the exaltation of that moment . 
She sang in an inspired trance from the utterance of the first note the horror of the imminent fate sank out of sight . 
Her eyes were fixed upon the convulsed face , but she beheld it not all the concentrated forces of her life flowed into the music . 
She sat down beside him , and took his head upon her lap . 
For a long time he was silent , only shivering as if in fever . 
She turns her head ! he cried . 
A low , prolonged attack of fever followed , during which the presence of Helena was indispensable to his comfort . 
She ventured to leave the room only while he slept . 
He was like a child in her hands and when she commended his patience or his good resolutions , his face beamed with joy and gratitude . 
to enter a monastery and devote the rest of his life to pious works . 
But , even after his recovery , he was still too weak and dependent on his children's attentions to carry out this resolution . 
were severely punished all excess disappeared , and a reign of peace and gentleness descended upon Kinesma . 
are never tired of relating incidents of the beauty , the courage , the benevolence , and the saintly piety of the Good Lady of Kinesma . 
It would have required an intimate familiarity with the habitual demeanor of the people of Londongrove to detect in them an access of interest , of whatever kind . 
Expression with them was pitched to so low a key that its changes might be compared to the slight variations in the drabs and grays in which they were clothed . 
The agitations of the war which had so recently come to an end had hardly touched this quiet and peaceful community . 
Peace brought to them a relief , like the awakening from an uncomfortable dream their lives at once reverted to the calm which they had breathed for thirty years preceding the national disturbance . 
In their ways they had not materially changed for a hundred years . 
In this preliminary meeting , also , the sexes were divided , but rather from habit than any prescribed rule . 
They were already in the vestibule of the sanctuary their voices were subdued and their manner touched with a kind of reverence . 
, the cause of these slight deviations from the ordinary behavior of the gathering was generally known . 
Abraham's son had died the previous Sixth month , leaving a widow incapable of taking charge of his farm on the Street Road , which was therefore offered for rent . 
It was not always easy to obtain a satisfactory tenant in those days , and Abraham was not more relieved than surprised on receiving an application from an unexpected quarter . 
In this circumstance , it is true , there was nothing strange , and the interest of the people sprang from some other particulars which had transpired . 
Abraham Bradbury had of course been present at the arrival , and the Friends upon the adjoining farms had kindly given their assistance , although it was a busy time of the year . 
While , therefore , no one suspected that the farmer could possibly accept a tenant of doubtful character , a general sentiment of curious expectancy went forth to meet the Donnelly family . 
Even the venerable Simon Pennock , who lived in the opposite part of the township , was not wholly free from the prevalent feeling . 
Abraham , he said , approaching his colleague , I suppose thee has satisfied thyself that the strange Friend is of good repute . 
Abraham was assuredly satisfied of one thing that the three hundred silver dollars in his antiquated secretary at home were good and lawful coin . 
is that of a good and honest man . 
Henry himself will stand ready to satisfy thee , if it is needful . 
Here he turned to greet a tall , fresh faced youth , who had quietly joined the group at the men's end of the meeting house . 
He was nineteen , blue eyed , and rosy , and a little embarrassed by the grave , scrutinizing , yet not unfriendly eyes fixed upon him . 
Simon , this is Henry's oldest son , De Courcy , said Abraham . 
One of the heavy carriages of the place and period , new and shiny , in spite of its sober colors , rolled into the yard . 
Abraham Bradbury and De Courcy Donnelly set forth side by side , to meet it . 
His blue eyes seemed to laugh above the measured accents of his plain speech , and the close crop of his hair could not hide its tendency to curl . 
Dress and speech , in him , expressed condescension rather than fraternal equality . 
He carefully assisted his wife to alight , and De Courcy led the horse to the hitching shed . 
While she was greeting Abraham Bradbury , the two daughters , Sylvia and Alice , who had been standing shyly by themselves on the edge of the group of women , came forward . 
The latter was a model of the demure Quaker maiden but Abraham experienced as much surprise as was possible to his nature on observing Sylvia's costume . 
Saying , Thee must make me acquainted with the rest of our brethren , he led the way back to the men's end . 
When he had been presented to the older members , it was time for them to assemble in meeting . 
The people were again quietly startled when Henry Donnelly deliberately mounted to the third and highest bench facing them , and sat down beside Abraham and Simon . 
These two retained , possibly with some little inward exertion , the composure of their faces , and the strange Friend became like unto them . 
His hands were clasped firmly in his lap his full , decided lips were set together , and his eyes gazed into vacancy from under the broad brim . 
De Courcy had removed his hat on entering the house , but , meeting his father's eyes , replaced it suddenly , with a slight blush . 
When Simon Pennock and Ruth Treadwell had spoken the thoughts which had come to them in the stillness , the strange Friend arose . 
Even his broad a's and the strong roll of his r's verified the rumor of his foreign birth , did not detract from the authority of his words . 
That evening , the family were alone in their new home . 
De Courcy twisted his neck as if the straight collar of his coat were a bad fit , and Henry , the youngest boy , nodded drowsily from time to time . 
When it is once settled as something not to be helped , it will give us no trouble . 
Faith , Sylvia ! exclaimed De Courcy , I almost wish I had kept you company . 
Don't be impatient , my boy , said the mother , gently . 
Don't carry the old life to a land where it's out of place . 
We must be what we seem to be , every one of us ! So we will ! said Sylvia , rising from her seat , I , as well as the rest . 
It was what I said in the beginning , you no , THEE knows , father . 
Somebody must be interpreter when the time comes somebody must remember while the rest of you are forgetting . 
Oh , I shall be talked about , and set upon , and called hard names it won't be so easy . 
Stay where you are , De Courcy that coat will fit sooner than you think . 
Her brother lifted his shoulders and made a grimace . 
I've an unlucky name , it seems , said he . 
The old fellow I mean Friend Simon pronounced it outlandish . 
Couldn't I change it to Ezra or Adonijah ? Boy , boy Don't be alarmed , father . 
It will soon be as Sylvia says thee's right , and mother is right . 
I'll let Sylvia keep my memory , and start fresh from here . 
We must into the field to morrow , Hal and I. There's no need of a collar at the plough tail . 
They went to rest , and on the morrow not only the boys , but their father were in the field . 
Shrewd , quick , and strong , they made available what they knew of farming operations , and disguised much of their ignorance , while they learned . 
Henry Donnelly's first public appearance had made a strong public impression in his favor , which the voice of the older Friends soon stamped as a settled opinion . 
His sons did their share , by the amiable , yielding temper they exhibited , in accommodating themselves to the manners and ways of the people . 
They were anxious to make their naturalization complete , and it soon became so . 
The strange Friend was now known in Londongrove by the familiar name of Henry . 
This respect kept at bay the curiosity that might still have lingered in some minds concerning his antecedent life . 
Thee must suffer me to wait the call . 
After this there was nothing more to be said . 
The family was on terms of quiet intimacy with the neighbors and even Sylvia , in spite of her defiant eyes and worldly ways , became popular among the young men and maidens . 
She was not set upon , and called hard names , as she had anticipated . 
Friend Henry , nevertheless , was ready with the advance rent , and his bills were promptly paid . 
He was close at a bargain , which was considered rather a merit than otherwise , and almost painfully exact in observing the strict letter of it , when made . 
From time to time the postmaster at the corner delivered to Henry Donnelly a letter from New York , always addressed in the same hand . 
The first which arrived had an Esq . 
added to the name , but this compliment soon ceased . 
Perhaps the official may have vaguely wondered whether there was any connection between the occasional absence of Friend Henry not at Yearly Meeting time and these letters . 
Outside of the family circle , however , they were serenely reticent . 
He rode a gallant horse , dressed a little more elegantly than his membership prescribed , and his unusually high , straight collar took a knack of falling over . 
Why , it's the common talk ! Surely , thee's heard of it before ? No ! Henry set his lips together in a manner which Abraham understood . 
Considering that he had fully performed his duty , he said no more . 
That evening , Sylvia , who had been gently thrumming to herself at the window , began singing Bonnie Peggie Alison . 
Her father looked at De Courcy , who caught his glance , then lowered his eyes , and turned to leave the room . 
Stop , De Courcy , said the former I've heard a piece of news about thee to day , which I want thee to make clear . 
Shall I go , father ? asked Sylvia . 
No thee may stay to give De Courcy his memory . 
I think he is beginning to need it . 
I've learned which way he rides on Seventh day evenings . 
Father , I am old enough to choose my way , said De Courcy . 
With a strong effort the young man threw off the yoke of a self taught restraint , and asserted his true nature . 
Has O'Neil written ? he asked . 
Then , father , he continued , I prefer the certainty of my present life to the uncertainty of the old . 
I will not dissolve my connection with the Friends by a shock which might give thee trouble but I will slowly work away from them . 
I shall soon be twenty five , father , and this thing has gone on about as long as I can bear it . 
I must decide to be either a man or a milksop . 
The color rose to Henry Donnelly's cheeks , and his eyes flashed , but he showed no signs of anger . 
He moved to De Courcy's side and laid his hand upon his shoulder . 
Patience , my boy ! he said . 
It's the old blood , and I might have known it would proclaim itself . 
Suppose I were to shut my eyes to thy ridings , and thy merry makings , and thy worldly company . 
So far I might go but the girl is no mate for thee . 
If O'Neil is alive , we are sure to hear from him soon and in three years , at the utmost , if the Lord favors us , the end will come . 
I have spoken to her , he replied , and it is not the custom of our family to break plighted faith . 
Thou art our cross , not Sylvia . 
I will endeavor to seek for guidance . 
De Courcy has been changing for a year past I am only surprised that you did not sooner notice it . 
What I said in jest has become serious truth he has already half forgotten . 
We might have expected , in the beginning , that one of two things would happen either he would become a plodding Quaker farmer or take to his present courses . 
He walked up and down the room with a troubled air . 
I have never have been happier than in these quiet ways with thee . 
Only for thy sake , Henry I fear it would be a terrible disappointment to thee . 
Or is thee as accustomed to the high seat as I to my place on the women's side ? No ! he answered emphatically . 
The talk with De Courcy has set my quiet Quaker blood in motion . 
The boy is more than half right I am sure Sylvia thinks so too . 
What could I expect ? He has no birthright , and didn't begin his task , as I did , after the bravery of youth was over . 
It took six generations to establish the serenity and content of our brethren here , and the dress we wear don't give us the nature . 
De Courcy is tired of the masquerade , and Sylvia is tired of seeing it . 
No outward change in Henry Donnelly's demeanor betrayed this or any other disturbance at home . 
There were repeated consultations between the father and son , but they led to no satisfactory conclusion . 
De Courcy was sincerely attached to the pretty Presbyterian maiden , and found livelier society in her brothers and cousins than among the grave , awkward Quaker youths of Londongrove . 
With the occasional freedom from restraint there awoke in him a desire for independence a thirst for the suppressed license of youth . 
His new acquaintances were accustomed to a rigid domestic regime , but of a different character , and they met on a common ground of rebellion . 
Their aberrations , it is true , were not of a very formidable character , and need not have been guarded but for the severe conventionalities of both sects . 
He had foreseen the probability of such a visit and was prepared . 
Some months passed away , and the absence from which Henry Donnelly always returned with a good supply of ready money did not take place . 
The knowledge of farming which his sons had acquired now came into play . 
Late in the fall came the opportunity for which he had longed . 
One evening he brought home a letter , in the well known handwriting . 
His father opened and read it in silence . 
Well , father ? he said . 
A former letter was lost , it seems . 
This should have come in the spring it is only the missing sum . 
Does O'Neil fix any time ? No but he hopes to make a better report next year . 
Then , father , said De Courcy , it is useless for me to wait longer I am satisfied as it is . 
I should not have given up Margaret in any case but now , since thee can live with Henry's help , I shall claim her . 
MUST it be , De Courcy ? It must . 
But it was not to be . 
His sweetheart's family was in good circumstances but , had she been poor , he felt confident of his power to make and secure for her a farmer's home . 
To the past whatever it might have been he said farewell , and went carolling some cheerful ditty , to look upon the face of his future . 
That night a country wagon slowly drove up to Henry Donnelly's door . 
The three men who accompanied it hesitated before they knocked , and , when the door was opened , looked at each other with pale , sad faces , before either spoke . 
He was not dead , for the heart beat feebly and slowly but all efforts to restore his consciousness were in vain . 
There was concussion of the brain the physician said . 
He had been thrown from his horse , probably alighting upon his head , as there were neither fractures nor external wounds . 
All that night and next day the tenderest , the most unwearied care was exerted to call back the flickering gleam of life . 
The shock had been too great his deadly torpor deepened into death . 
In their time of trial and sorrow the family received the fullest sympathy , the kindliest help , from the whole neighborhood . 
They had never before so fully appreciated the fraternal character of the society whereof they were members . 
The plain , plodding people living on the adjoining farms became virtually their relatives and fellow mourners . 
All the external offices demanded by the sad occasion were performed for them , and other eyes than their own shed tears of honest grief over De Courcy's coffin . 
The better qualities of human nature always develop a temporary good breeding . 
Wherever any of the family went , they saw the reflection of their own sorrow and a new spirit informed to their eyes the quiet pastoral landscapes . 
In their life at home there was little change . 
Abraham Bradbury had insisted on sending his favorite grandson , Joel , a youth of twenty two , to take De Courcy's place for a few months . 
He was a shy quiet creature , with large brown eyes like a fawn's , and young Henry Donnelly and he became friends at once . 
His coming did not fill the terrible gap which De Courcy's death had made , but seemed to make it less constantly and painfully evident . 
Susan Donnelly soon remarked a change , which she could neither clearly define nor explain to herself , both in her husband and in their daughter Sylvia . 
His dreams were of the old times words and names long unused came from his lips as he slept by her side . 
Although he bore his grief with more strength than she had hoped , he grew nervous and excitable , sometimes unreasonably petulant , sometimes gay to a pitch which impressed her with pain . 
When the spring came around , and the mysterious correspondence again failed , as in the previous year , his uneasiness increased . 
He took his place on the high seat on First days , as usual , but spoke no more . 
Sylvia , on the other hand , seemed to have wholly lost her proud , impatient character . 
In fact , she and her father had changed places . 
Can THEE do it , Sylvia ? her father would ask . 
I believe I have done it already , she said . 
If it seems difficult , pray consider how much later I begin my work . 
I have had all your memories in charge , and now I must not only forget for myself , but for you as well . 
Indeed , as the spring and summer months came and went , Sylvia evidently grew stronger in her determination . 
The fret of her idle force was allayed , and her content increased as she saw and performed the possible duties of her life . 
Perhaps her father might have caught something of her spirit , but for his anxiety in regard to the suspended correspondence . 
He wearied himself in guesses , which all ended in the simple fact that , to escape embarrassment , the rent must again be saved from the earnings of the farm . 
The harvests that year were bountiful wheat , barley , and oats stood thick and heavy in the fields . 
No one showed more careful thrift or more cheerful industry than young Joel Bradbury , and the family felt that much of the fortune of their harvest was owing to him . 
On the first day after the crops had been securely housed , all went to meeting , except Sylvia . 
It was a sultry forenoon , and the windows and doors of the building were open . 
The humming of insects was heard in the silence , and broken lights and shadows of the poplar leaves were sprinkled upon the steps and sills . 
Outside there were glimpses of quiet groves and orchards , and blue fragments of sky , no more semblance of life in the external landscape than there was in the silent meeting within . 
The boys pricked up their ears at this unusual sound , and stole glances at each other when they imagined themselves unseen by the awful faces in the gallery . 
Presently those nearest the door saw a broader shadow fall over those flickering upon the stone . 
A red face appeared for a moment , and was then drawn back out of sight . 
The shadow advanced and receded , in a state of peculiar restlessness . 
Sometimes the end of a riding whip was visible , sometimes the corner of a coarse gray coat . 
The boys who noticed these apparitions were burning with impatience , but they dared not leave their seats until Abraham Bradbury had reached his hand to Henry Donnelly . 
The mysterious personage was still beside the door , leaning against the wall . 
He was a short , thick set man of fifty , with red hair , round gray eyes , a broad pug nose , and projecting mouth . 
He wore a heavy gray coat , despite the heat , and a waistcoat with many brass buttons also corduroy breeches and riding boots . 
When they appeared , he started forward with open mouth and eyes , and stared wildly in their faces . 
They gathered around the poplar trunks , and waited with some uneasiness to see what would follow . 
Slowly and gravely , with the half broken ban of silence still hanging over them , the people issued from the house . 
The strange man stood , leaning forward , and seemed to devour each , in turn , with his eager eyes . 
After the young men came the fathers of families , and lastly the old men from the gallery seats . 
Last of these came Henry Donnelly . 
In the meantime , all had seen and wondered at the waiting figure its attitude was too intense and self forgetting to be misinterpreted . 
The greetings and remarks were suspended until the people had seen for whom the man waited , and why . 
Him and my lady and all the children went , and sure I can go too . 
He found himself within a ring of staring , wondering , scandalized eyes . 
Both husband and wife were eager to get home and hear O'Neil's news in private so they set out at once in their plain carriage , followed by the latter on horseback . 
As for the Friends , they went home in a state of bewilderment . 
Alice Donnelly , with her brother Henry and Joel Bradbury , returned on foot . 
The two former remembered O'Neil , and , although they had not witnessed his first interview with their father , they knew enough of the family history to surmise his errand . 
Joel was silent and troubled . 
Alice , I hope it doesn't mean that we are going back , don't you ? said Henry . 
Yes , she answered , and said no more . 
They took a foot path across the fields , and reached the farm house at the same time with the first party . 
As they opened the door Sylvia descended the staircase dressed in a rich shimmering brocade , with a necklace of amethysts around her throat . 
To their eyes , so long accustomed to the absence of positive color , she was completely dazzling . 
There was a new color on her cheeks , and her eyes seemed larger and brighter . 
She made a stately courtesy , and held open the parlor door . 
Welcome , Lord Henry Dunleigh , of Dunleigh Castle ! she cried welcome , Lady Dunleigh ! Her father kissed her on the forehead . 
Now give us back our memories , Sylvia ! he said , exultingly . 
Susan Donnelly sank into a chair , overcome by the mixed emotions of the moment . 
Come in , my faithful Jack ! Unpack thy portmanteau of news , for I see thou art bursting to show it let us have every thing from the beginning . 
Wife , it's a little too much for thee , coming so unexpectedly . 
Set out the wine , Alice ! The decanter was placed upon the table . 
This little incident touched the family more than the announcement of their good fortune . 
Henry Donnelly's feverish exultation subsided he sat down with a grave , thoughtful face , while his wife wept quietly beside him . 
O'Neil's story was long , and frequently interrupted . 
On the other hand , the suggestion to emigrate to America and become Quakers during their exile offered more advantages the more they considered it . 
How Lord Dunleigh obtained admission into the sect as plain Henry Donnelly is a matter of conjecture with the Londongrove Friends . 
The deception which had been practised upon them although it was perhaps less complete than they imagined left a soreness of feeling behind it . 
The matter was hushed up after the departure of the family , and one might now live for years in the neighborhood without hearing the story . 
How the shrewd plan was carried out by Lord Dunleigh and his family , we have already learned . 
O'Neil , left on the estate , in the north of Ireland , did his part with equal fidelity . 
Now , the estate was not only unencumbered , but there was a handsome surplus in the hands of the Dublin bankers . 
The family might return whenever they chose , and there would be a festival to welcome them , O'Neil said , such as Dunleigh Castle had never known since its foundations were laid . 
Let us go at once ! said Sylvia , when he had concluded his tale . 
Since De Courcy's death I have begun to appreciate our neighbors I was resigned to become one of these people had our luck gone the other way . 
Then , her father exclaimed , it IS time that we should return , and without delay . 
But thee wrongs us somewhat , Sylvia it has not all been masquerading . 
We have become the servants , rather than the masters , of our own parts , and shall live a painful and divided life until we get back in our old place . 
I fear me it will always be divided for thee , wife , and Alice and Henry . 
To morrow we must leave Londongrove forever ! He had scarcely spoken , when a new surprise fell upon the family . 
Joel Bradbury arose and walked forward , as if thrust by an emotion so powerful that it transformed his whole being . 
He seemed to forget every thing but Alice Donnelly's presence . 
His soft brown eyes were fixed on her face with an expression of unutterable tenderness and longing . 
He caught her by the hands . 
Alice , O , Alice ! burst from his lips you are not going to leave me ? The flush in the girl's sweet face faded into a deadly paleness . 
For a moment there was silence in the room . 
Presently , Sylvia , all her haughtiness gone , knelt beside the young man , and took her sister from his arms . 
Joel , my poor , dear friend , she said , I am sorry that the last , worst mischief we have done must fall upon you . 
He was profoundly moved his strong voice trembled , and his words came slowly . 
I will not appeal to thy heart , Joel , he said , for it would not hear me now . 
But thou hast heard all our story , and knowest that we must leave these parts , never to return . 
We belong to another station and another mode of life than yours , and it must come to us as a good fortune that our time of probation is at an end . 
He spoke tenderly , but inflexibly , and Joel felt that his fate was pronounced . 
The day which brought such great fortune had thus a sad and troubled termination . 
So two more days elapsed , and then the Dunleighs passed down the Street Road , and the plain farm house was gone from their eyes forever . 
They went , and they never came again . 
An account of the great festival at Dunleigh Castle reached Londongrove two years later , through an Irish laborer , who brought to Joel Bradbury a letter of recommendation signed Dunleigh . 
Joel kept the man upon his farm , and the two preserved the memory of the family long after the neighborhood had ceased to speak of it . 
Joel never married he still lives in the house where the great sorrow of his life befell . 
If there ever was a man crushed out of all courage , all self reliance , all comfort in life , it was Jacob Flint . 
Why this should have been , neither he nor any one else could have explained but so it was . 
There was no form of their bullying meanness or the cowardice of their brutal strength which he did not experience . 
If , therefore , at school and before folks , Jacob's position was always uncomfortable and depressing , it was little more cheering at home . 
This was Mrs. Ann Pardon , the hearty , active wife of Farmer Robert Pardon , who lived nearly a mile farther down the brook . 
Jacob had won her good will by some neighborly services , something so trifling , indeed , that the thought of a favor conferred never entered his mind . 
Ann Pardon saw that it did not she detected a streak of most unconscious goodness under his uncouth , embarrassed ways , and she determined to cultivate it . 
Now , don't go for to take 'em off , Mr. Jake , said she . 
I spec' you're gwine down to Pardon's , and so you jist keep 'em on to show 'em all how nice you KIN look . 
The same thought had already entered Jacob's mind . 
Poor fellow ! It was the highest form of pleasure of which he had ever allowed himself to conceive . 
He could never , NEVER forget himself , as he had seen other young fellows do but to remember himself agreeably was certainly the next best thing . 
The ever present thought of this weakness was the only drop of bitterness in his cup , as he followed the lonely path through the thickets . 
He was soothed and cheered his head lifted itself in the presentiment of a future less lonely than the past , and the everlasting trouble vanished from his eyes . 
Suddenly , at a turn of the path , two mowers from the meadow , with their scythes upon their shoulders , came upon him . 
He had not heard their feet on the deep turf . 
They could not understand the mixed defiance and supplication of his face to them he only looked queer . 
Been committin' a murder , have you ? asked one of them , grinning . 
Startin' off on his journey , I guess , said the other . 
The next instant they were gone , and Jacob , with set teeth and clinched hands , smothered something that would have been a howl if he had given it voice . 
Sharp lines of pain were marked on his face , and , for the first time , the idea of resistance took fierce and bitter possession of his heart . 
But the mood was too unusual to last presently he shook his head , and walked on towards Pardon's farm house . 
Ann wore a smart gingham dress , and her first exclamation was Why , Jake ! how nice you look . 
And so you know all about it , too ? About what ? I see you don't , said she . 
I was too fast but it makes no difference . 
I know you are willing to lend me a helping hand . 
Oh , to be sure , Jacob answered . 
And not mind a little company ? Jacob's face suddenly clouded but he said , though with an effort No not much if I can be of any help . 
Jacob looked perplexed , but said nothing . 
Becky will help what she can , and while I'm in the kitchen she'll have an eye to things outside , she said . 
Jacob's head was down again , and , moreover , turned on one side , but his ear betrayed the mounting blood . 
Finally he answered , in a quick , husky voice Well , I'll do what I can . 
What's first ? Thereupon he began to carry some benches from the veranda to a grassy bank beside the sycamore tree . 
He knew Becky , but he had never seen her in white and pink , with floating tresses , until now . 
Some sweet , confusing influence , he knew not what , passed into his blood . 
The young men had brought a fiddler from the village , and it was not long before most of the company were treading the measures of reels or cotillons on the grass . 
Jacob was surrounded before he could escape . 
But a hundred questions , stirred by what he had seen , were clamoring for light , and they threw the desperate impulse to his lips . 
If I COULD dance , would you dance with me ? The two lively girls heard the words , and looked at Becky with roguish faces . 
Oh yes , take him for your next partner ! cried one . 
I will , said Becky , after he comes back from his journey . 
Jacob leaned against the tree , his eyes fixed on the ground . 
Is it a bargain ? asked one of the girls . 
No , said he , and walked rapidly away . 
He went to the house , and , finding that Robert had arrived , took his hat , and left by the rear door . 
There was a grassy alley between the orchard and garden , from which it was divided by a high hawthorn hedge . 
Becky , I think you rather hurt Jake Flint , said the girl . 
Hardly , answered Becky he's used to that . 
Not if he likes you and you might go further and fare worse . 
Yes , and covered with as much as it'll bear ! Here the girls were called away to the dance . 
Jacob slowly walked up the dewy meadow , the sounds of fiddling , singing , and laughter growing fainter behind him . 
The betrayal hurt Jacob more keenly than the ridicule . 
had been perpetuated , until Jake Flint's Journey was a synonyme for any absurd or extravagant expectation . 
With a strong bodily shudder his tears burst forth , and the passion of his weeping filled him from head to foot . 
How long he wept he knew not it seemed as if the hot fountains would never run dry . 
Suddenly and startlingly a hand fell upon his shoulder . 
Boy , what does this mean ? It was his father who stood before him . 
Jacob looked up like some shy animal brought to bay , his eyes full of a feeling mixed of fierceness and terror but he said nothing . 
I always thought you had friends of your own age . 
Friends ? Devils ! exclaimed Jacob . 
Jacob saw his father's face grow pale in the moonlight , while he pressed his hand involuntarily upon his heart , as if struggling with some physical pain . 
At last he spoke , but his words were strange and incoherent . 
I couldn't sleep , he said I got up again and came out o' doors . 
The white ox had broken down the fence at the corner , and would soon have been in the cornfield . 
I thought it was that , maybe , but still your your mother would come into my head . 
Then he said , in a grave , commanding tone Just let me know the whole story . 
I have that much right yet . 
At the mention of Whitney's place , a singular expression of malice touched the old man's face . 
Do you love Becky Morton ? he asked bluntly , when all had been told . 
I don't know , Jacob stammered I think not because when I seem to like her most , I feel afraid of her . 
It's lucky that you're not sure of it ! exclaimed the old man with energy because you should never have her . 
No , said Jacob , with a mournful acquiescence , I can never have her , or any other one . 
But you shall and will I when I help you . 
If we're poor , your wife must take your poverty with you , or she don't come into MY doors . 
But first of all you must make your journey ! My journey ! repeated Jacob . 
Weren't you thinking of it this night , before you took your seat on that stump ? A little more , and you'd have gone clean off , I reckon . 
Jacob was silent , and hung his head . 
Never mind ! I've no right to think hard of it . 
In a week we'll have finished our haying , and then it's a fortnight to wheat but , for that matter , Harry and I can manage the wheat by ourselves . 
You may take a month , two months , if any thing comes of it . 
Under a month I don't mean that you shall come back . 
I'll give you twenty dollars for a start if you want more you must earn it on the road , any way you please . 
And , mark you , Jacob ! since you ARE poor , don't let anybody suppose you are rich . 
Get to bed now the matter's settled I will have it so . 
They rose and walked across the meadow to the house . 
Jacob had quite forgotten the events of the evening in the new prospect suddenly opened to him , which filled him with a wonderful confusion of fear and desire . 
His father said nothing more . 
They entered the lonely house together at midnight , and went to their beds but Jacob slept very little . 
Six days afterwards he left home , on a sparkling June morning , with a small bundle tied in a yellow silk handkerchief under his arm . 
His father had furnished him with the promised money , but had positively refused to tell him what road he should take , or what plan of action he should adopt . 
The only stipulation was that his absence from home should not be less than a month . 
After he had passed the wood and reached the highway which followed the course of the brook , he paused to consider which course to take . 
Northward he would have to pass the mill and blacksmith's shop at the cross roads . 
Once in the woods , an exquisite sense of freedom came upon him . 
He lay down upon the moss under a spreading beech tree and tried to think but the thoughts would not come . 
Towards noon Jacob found himself beyond the limited geography of his life . 
At noon , he stopped at a farm house by the roadside to get a drink of water . 
A pleasant woman , who came from the door at that moment with a pitcher , allowed him to lower the bucket and haul it up dripping with precious coolness . 
She looked upon him with good will , for he had allowed her to see his eyes , and something in their honest , appealing expression went to her heart . 
We're going to have dinner in five minutes , said she won't you stay and have something ? Jacob stayed and brake bread with the plain , hospitable family . 
Towards night he reached an old country tavern , lording it over an incipient village of six houses . 
The landlord and hostler were inspecting a drooping looking horse in front of the stables . 
Now , if there was any thing which Jacob understood , to the extent of his limited experience , it was horse nature . 
His prompt detection of the ailment , and prescription of a remedy which in an hour showed its good effects , installed him in the landlord's best graces . 
The latter said , Well , it shall cost you nothing to night , as he led the way to the supper room . 
Resisting an offer of good wages if he would stay and help look after the stables , he set forward the next morning with a new and most delightful confidence in himself . 
The knowledge that now nobody knew him as Jake Flint quite removed his tortured self consciousness . 
When he met a person who was glum and ungracious of speech , he saw , nevertheless , that he was not its special object . 
He was sometimes asked questions , to be sure , which a little embarrassed him , but he soon hit upon answers which were sufficiently true without betraying his purpose . 
Here the season appeared to be more backward than in the open country the hay harvest was not yet over . 
He seemed to be very far from home about forty miles , in fact , and was beginning to feel a little tired of wandering . 
Finally the road climbed a low pass of the hills , and dropped into a valley on the opposite side . 
There was but one house in view a two story building of logs and plaster , with a garden and orchard on the hillside in the rear . 
As the woman came down the nearer side she appeared to notice him , for her head was turned from time to time in his direction . 
They were nearly a furlong distant , but Jacob was quite sure that she pointed to him , and that the man looked in the same direction . 
Presently she set off across the meadow , directly towards him . 
Indeed , he could not have done so , for his chin was propped upon the top rail of the fence . 
You are a stranger , I see , she added . 
Yes , in these parts , he replied . 
Looking for work ? He hardly knew what answer to make , so he said , at a venture , That's as it happens . 
Then he colored a little , for the words seemed foolish to his ears . 
Time's precious , said the girl , so I'll tell you at once we want help . 
Our hay MUST be got in while the fine weather lasts . 
I'll help you ! Jacob exclaimed , taking his arms from the rail , and looking as willing as he felt . 
I'm so glad ! But I must tell you , at first , that we're not rich , and the hands are asking a great deal now . 
How much do you expect ? Whatever you please ? said he , climbing the fence . 
No , that's not our way of doing business . 
I will go on with my mowing , said she , when they reached the horses , and you can rake and load with my father . 
What name shall I call you by ? Everybody calls me Jake . 
Jake ! Jacob is better . 
Well , Jacob , I hope you'll give us all the help you can . 
With a nod and a light laugh she sprang upon the machine . 
They worked steadily until sunset , when the girl , detaching her horses from the machine , mounted one of them and led the other to the barn . 
At the supper table , the farmer's wife said Susan , you must be very tired . 
Not now , mother ! she cheerily answered . 
I was , I think , but after I picked up Jacob I felt sure we should get our hay in . 
It was a good thing , said the farmer Jacob don't need to be told how to work . 
Poor Jacob ! He was so happy he could have cried . 
He sat and listened , and blushed a little , with a smile on his face which it was a pleasure to see . 
Even Susan looked grave and thoughtful . 
Jacob , said the farmer , finally , I wish we could keep you until wheat harvest but you know we are poor , and can't afford it . 
Susan looked at him quickly , with a bright , speaking face . 
It's hardly fair to you , said the farmer . 
But I like to be here so much ! Jacob cried . 
I like all of you ! We DO seem to suit , said the farmer , like as one family . 
And that reminds me , we've not heard your family name yet . 
Jacob FLINT ! exclaimed the farmer's wife , with sudden agitation . 
Jacob was scared and troubled . 
Why , mother , she asked , do you know Jacob's family ? No , I think not , said her mother , only somebody of the name , long ago . 
His offer , however , was gratefully accepted . 
The bright , hot summer days came and went , but no flower of July ever opened as rapidly and richly and warmly as his chilled , retarded nature . 
New thoughts and instincts came with every morning's sun , and new conclusions were reached with every evening's twilight . 
Yet as the wheat harvest drew towards the end , he felt that he must leave the place . 
The month of absence had gone by , he scarce knew how . 
Moreover , this life at Susan's side was fast growing to be a pain , unless he could assure himself that it would be so forever . 
They were in the wheat field , busy with the last sheaves she raking and he binding . 
The farmer and younger children had gone to the barn with a load . 
Yes , she answered very slowly . 
And yet I'm very sorry to go . 
I WE don't want you to go , if we could help it . 
Jacob appeared to struggle with himself . 
If I could he brought out , and then paused . 
Susan , would you be glad if I came back ? His eyes implored her to read his meaning . 
No doubt she read it correctly , for her face flushed , her eyelids fell , and she barely murmured , Yes , Jacob . 
Then I'll come ! he cried I'll come and help you with the oats . 
That was all that was said at the time but the two understood each other tolerably well . 
On the afternoon of the second day , Jacob saw again the lonely house of his father . 
His journey was made , yet , if any of the neighbors had seen him , they would never have believed that he had come back rich . 
Samuel Flint turned away to hide a peculiar smile when he saw his son but little was said until late that evening , after Harry and Sally had left . 
Then he required and received an exact account of Jacob's experience during his absence . 
After hearing the story to the end , he said , And so you love this Susan Meadows ? I'd I'd do any thing to be with her . 
Are you afraid of her ? No ! Jacob uttered the word so emphatically that it rang through the house . 
Ah , well ! said the old man , lifting his eyes , and speaking in the air , all the harm may be mended yet . 
But there must be another test . 
Then he was silent for some time . 
I have it ! he finally exclaimed . 
Jacob , you must go back for the oats harvest . 
You must ask Susan to be your wife , and ask her parents to let you have her . 
But , pay attention to my words ! you must tell her that you are a poor , hired man on this place , and that she can be engaged as housekeeper . 
Don't speak of me as your father , but as the owner of the farm . 
Bring her here in that belief , and let me see how honest and willing she is . 
I can easily arrange matters with Harry and Sally while you are away and I'll only ask you to keep up the appearance of the thing for a month or so . 
But , father , Jacob began . 
Not a word more ! It is no lie , after all , that you will tell her . 
I am afraid , said Jacob , that she could not leave her home now . 
She is too useful there , and the family is so poor . 
Tell them that both your wages , for the first year , shall go to them . 
It'll be my business to rake and scrape the money together somehow . 
Say , too , that the housekeeper's place can't be kept for her must be filled at once . 
He knew his father's stubborn will too well to suppose that it could be changed but the inevitable soon converted itself into the possible and desirable . 
Enough his father's plan became his own long before the time was out . 
On his second journey everybody seemed to be an old acquaintance and an intimate friend . 
They had all missed him , they said even the horses and oxen had looked for him , and they were wondering how they should get the oats harvested without him . 
Jacob looked at Susan as the farmer said this , and her eyes seemed to answer , I said nothing , but I knew you would come . 
Then , first , he felt sufficient courage for the task before him . 
He rose the next morning , before any one was stirring , and waited until she should come down stairs . 
The sun had not risen when she appeared , with a milk pail in each hand , walking unsuspectingly to the cow yard . 
O Jacob ! was all she could say . 
all at once his arms were around her , and they had kissed each other . 
Susan , he said , presently , I am a poor man only a farm hand , and must work for my living . 
You could look for a better husband . 
I could never find a better than you , Jacob . 
Then he told her the story which his father had prompted . 
Her face grew bright and happy as she listened , and he saw how from her very heart she accepted the humble fortune . 
Only the thought of her parents threw a cloud over the new and astonishing vision . 
Jacob , however , grew bolder as he saw fulfilment of his hope so near . 
They took the pails and seated themselves beside neighbor cows , one raising objections or misgivings which the other manfully combated . 
Jacob's earnestness unconsciously ran into his hands , as he discovered when the impatient cow began to snort and kick . 
The harvesting of the oats was not commenced that morning . 
The children were sent away , and there was a council of four persons held in the parlor . 
When the shock and surprise was over all gradually became cheerful , and , as the matter was more calmly discussed , the first conjectured difficulties somehow resolved themselves into trifles . 
It was the simplest and quietest wedding , at home , on an August morning . 
Farmer Meadows then drove the bridal pair half way on their journey , to the old country tavern , where a fresh conveyance had been engaged for them . 
He keenly watched his father's face when they arrived , and was a little relieved when he saw that his wife had made a good first impression . 
So , this is my new housekeeper , said the old man . 
I hope you will suit me as well as your husband does . 
I'll do my best , sir , said she but you must have patience with me for a few days , until I know your ways and wishes . 
Mr. Flint , said Sally , shall I get supper ready ? Susan looked up in astonishment at hearing the name . 
Yes , the old man remarked , we both have the same name . 
The fact is , Jacob and I are a sort of relations . 
Jacob , he whispered when she had left the room , keep quiet one more week , and then I'll let her know . 
All three went to the door as the visitors made their appearance on the veranda . 
The tears came into Samuel Flint's eyes . 
Let us shake hands , Lucy , he said my son has married your daughter . 
All but Jacob were freshly startled at these words . 
The two shook hands , and then Samuel , turning to Susan's father , said And this is your husband , Lucy . 
I am glad to make his acquaintance . 
Your father , Jacob ! Susan cried what does it all mean ? Jacob's face grew red , and the old habit of hanging his head nearly came back upon him . 
He knew not what to say , and looked wistfully at his father . 
Come into the house and sit down , said the latter . 
I think we shall all feel better when we have quietly and comfortably talked the matter over . 
They went into the quaint , old fashioned parlor , which had already been transformed by Susan's care , so that much of its shabbiness was hidden . 
Three of us here are old people , he began , and the two young ones love each other . 
It was so long ago , Lucy , that it cannot be laid to my blame if I speak of it now . 
Your husband , I see , has an honest heart , and will not misunderstand either of us . 
The same thing often turns up in life it is one of those secrets that everybody knows , and that everybody talks about except the persons concerned . 
When I was a young man , Lucy , I loved you truly , and I faithfully meant to make you my wife . 
I thought so too , for a while , said she , very calmly . 
Farmer Meadows looked at his wife , and no face was ever more beautiful than his , with that expression of generous pity shining through it . 
You know how I acted , Samuel Flint continued , but our children must also know that I broke off from you without giving any reason . 
A woman came between us and made all the mischief . 
I was considered rich then , and she wanted to secure my money for her daughter . 
I thought it was a just revenge , but I was unjust . 
, and she never complained , though the change in me slowly wore out her life . 
I know now that I was cruel but at the same time I punished myself , and was innocently punishing my son . 
But to HIM there was one way to make amends . 
I will help him to a wife , I said , who will gladly take poverty with him and for his sake . 
I forced him , against his will , to say that he was a hired hand on this place , and that Susan must be content to be a hired housekeeper . 
Now that I know Susan , I see that this proof might have been left out but I guess it has done no harm . 
The place is not so heavily mortgaged as people think , and it will be Jacob's after I am gone . 
Susan , dissolved in tears , kissed all of them in turn but the happiest heart there was Jacob's . 
It was now easy for him to confide to his wife the complete story of his troubles , and to find his growing self reliance strengthened by her quick , intelligent sympathy . 
The old place was no longer so lonely the nearest neighbors began to drop in and insist on return visits . 
In October , the Whitney place , which had been leased for several years , was advertised to be sold at public sale . 
Everybody from far and wide attended the sale , and , when Jacob Flint and his father arrived , everybody said to the former Of course you've come to buy , Jacob . 
But each man laughed at his own smartness , and considered the remark original with himself . 
Jacob was no longer annoyed . 
He laughed , too , and answered I'm afraid I can't do that but I've kept half my word , which is more than most men do . 
Jake's no fool , after all , was whispered behind him . 
The bidding commenced , at first very spirited , and then gradually slacking off , as the price mounted above the means of the neighboring farmers . 
The chief aspirant was a stranger , a well dressed man with a lawyer's air , whom nobody knew . 
All looked at Jacob , whose eyes and mouth showed that he was as dumbfoundered as the rest . 
The explanation soon leaked out . 
Samuel Flint had not thrown away his wealth , but had put it out of his own hands . 
It was given privately to trustees , to be held for his son , and returned when the latter should have married with his father's consent . 
There was more than enough to buy the Whitney place . 
Jacob and Susan are happy in their stately home , and good as they are happy . 
If any person in the neighborhood ever makes use of the phrase Jacob Flint's Journey , he intends thereby to symbolize the good fortune which sometimes follows honesty , reticence , and shrewdness . 
Were it not for the latter fact , indeed , one would turn with loathing from such endless chronicles of wickedness . 
Laying aside the book , I fell into a speculation concerning the mixture of the two elements in man's nature . 
is that it always tries to conceal itself , and the strongest incitement to good is that evil cannot be concealed . 
The crime , or the vice , or even the self acknowledged weakness , becomes a part of the individual consciousness it cannot be forgotten or outgrown . 
It follows a life through all experiences and to the uttermost ends of the earth , pressing towards the light with a terrible , demoniac power . 
It was one of the directors of our county almshouse , who came on an errand to which he attached no great importance . 
His story was told in a few words the package was placed upon my table , and I was again left to my meditations . 
Two or three days before , a man who had the appearance of a tramp had been observed by the people of a small village in the neighborhood . 
Towards sunset a farmer , on his way to the village store , found him sitting at the roadside , his head resting against a fence post . 
The man's face was so worn and exhausted that the farmer kindly stopped and addressed him but he gave no other reply than a shake of the head . 
He afterwards spoke a few words in German , which no one understood . 
At the almshouse , to which he was transported the same evening , he refused to answer the customary questions , although he appeared to understand them . 
The physician was obliged to use a slight degree of force in administering nourishment and medicine , but neither was of any avail . 
The man died within twenty four hours after being received . 
His pockets were empty , but two small leathern wallets were found under his pillow and these formed the package which the director left in my charge . 
They were full of papers in a foreign language , he said , and he supposed I might be able to ascertain the stranger's name and home from them . 
Some were written in pen and ink , and some in pencil , but all were equally brown , worn , and unsavory in appearance . 
In turning them over , however , my eye was caught by some slips in the Russian character , and three or four notes in French the rest were German . 
I laid aside Pitaval at once , emptied all the leathern pockets carefully , and set about examining the pile of material . 
I first ran rapidly through the papers to ascertain the dead man's name , but it was nowhere to be found . 
There were Latin sentences accounts of expenses a list of New York addresses , covering eight pages and a number of notes , written either in Warsaw or Breslau . 
Unpromising as is the matter , said I , let me see whether he can conceal his secret from even such unpractised eyes as mine . 
I went through the papers again , read each one rapidly , and arranged them in separate files , according to the character of their contents . 
Then I rearranged these latter in the order of time , so far as it was indicated and afterwards commenced the work of picking out and threading together whatever facts might be noted . 
Thereupon I once again rearranged the material , and attacked that which related to the first phase . 
A few memoranda of expenses , one of which was curious Dinner with Jean , rubles and immediately after it Doctor , rubles . 
The principal one was a list of addresses in New York , divided into sections , the street boundaries of which were given . 
There were no names , but some of the addresses were marked , and others ? , and a few had been crossed out with a pencil . 
This was about a year before his death . 
The date of the diploma given by the gymnasium at Breslau was June , , and the first date in Poland was May , . 
, and a little memorandum in pencil , dated Posen , Dec . 
The last date in Poland was March , , and the permit to embark at Bremen was dated in October of that year . 
Here , at least , was a slight chronological framework . 
I assumed , at the start , that the name which had been so carefully cut out of all the documents was the man's own . 
The Elise of the letters was therefore his sister . 
The second letter closed with I have enough work to do , but I keep well . 
Forget thy disappointment so far as I am concerned , for I never expected any thing I don't know why , but I never did . 
Here was a disappointment , at least , to begin with . 
I made a note of it opposite the date , on my blank programme , and took up the next letter . 
It was written in November , , and contained a passage which keenly excited my curiosity . 
It ran thus Do , pray , be more careful of thy money . 
As for thy other request , I have granted it , as thou seest , but it makes me a little anxious . 
What is the joke ? And how can it serve thee ? That is what I do not understand , and I have plagued myself not a little to guess . 
Among the Polish memoranda was this Sept . 
, rubles , which I assumed to represent a salary . 
His application to her for money , and the manner of her reference to it , indicated some imprudence or irregularity on his part . 
What the other request was , I could not guess but as I was turning and twisting the worn leaf in some perplexity , I made a sudden discovery . 
One side of the bottom edge had been very slightly doubled over in folding , and as I smoothed it out , I noticed some diminutive letters in the crease . 
I re read this letter very carefully , to determine whether it was really intended for Otto . 
It ran thus DEAR FRIEND , I will not say that your letter was entirely unexpected , either to Helmine or myself . 
I should , perhaps , have less faith in the sincerity of your attachment if you had not already involuntarily betrayed it . 
Helmine fully shares this feeling , and her poor heart is too painfully moved to allow her to reply . 
We shall remain in Warsaw a fortnight longer , as I think yourself will agree that it is better we should not immediately return to the castle . 
Jean , who must carry a fresh order already , will bring you this , and we hope to have good news of Henri . 
I send back the papers , which were unnecessary we never doubted you , and we shall of course keep your secret so long as you choose to wear it . 
AMELIE DE The more light I seemed to obtain , the more inexplicable the circumstances became . 
The diploma and the note of salary were grounds for supposing that Otto occupied the position of tutor in a noble Polish family . 
Plausible , so far but the letter was not such a one as a countess would have written to her son's tutor , under similar circumstances . 
Her mention of the papers and your secret must refer to circumstances which would explain the mystery . 
So long as you choose to WEAR it , she had written then it was certainly a secret connected with his personal history . 
Further , it appeared that Jean was sent to him with an order . 
The sums drawn by these orders amounted in all to four thousand two hundred rubles . 
Yet , if it were so , one of the memoranda confronted me with a conflicting fact Dinner with Jean , rubles . 
I finally decided to assume both these conjectures as true , and apply them to the remaining testimony . 
I first took up the leaf which had been torn out of a small journal or pocket note book , as was manifested by the red edge on three sides . 
It was scribbled over with brief notes in pencil , written at different times . 
Many of them were merely mnemonic signs but the recurrence of the letters J and Y seemed to point to transactions with Jean , and the drawer of the various sums of money . 
Told the C. No knowledge of S therefore safe . 
Uncertain of C to Warsaw . 
All for naught ! All for naught ! Jan . 
What is to be the end ? Threats . 
No tidings of Y. Walked the streets all day . 
The C. and H. left yesterday . 
Let it come , then ! These broken words warmed my imagination powerfully . 
I now guessed the H. in the second entry to mean Helmine . 
The two last suggested a removal to Warsaw from the country . 
A closer examination revealed several things which failed to impress me at the outset . 
Let me give the fragment just as it lay before me ARON ! It is quite time be done . 
untess goes , and she will know who you time , unless you carry friend or not decide , ann Helm . 
Here , I felt sure , was the clue to much of the mystery . 
The first thing that struck me was the appearance of a new name . 
This , then , was Jean ! The address was certainly Baron , and why thrice underscored , unless in contemptuous satire ? Light began to break upon the matter at last . 
Otto had been playing the part , perhaps assuming the name , of a nobleman , seduced to the deception by his passion for the Countess' sister , Helmine . 
This explained the reference to the papers , and the secret , and would account for the respectful and sympathetic tone of the Countess' letter . 
But behind this there was certainly another secret , in which Y. was concerned , and which related to money . 
Here , just as the story began to appear in faint outline , my discoveries stopped for a while . 
The fact that they were not destroyed showed the hold which his past life had had upon him even to his dying hour . 
But the suspicion came , and led to a re examination of the leathern wallets . 
No tidings of Y might indicate that Count Kasincsky had been concerned in the rebellion , and had fled , or been taken prisoner . 
The next letter of the sister was addressed to Bremen . 
After having established so many particulars , I found it easily intelligible . 
I have done what I can , she wrote . 
I put it in this letter it is all I have . 
But do not ask me for money again mother is ailing most of the time , and I have not yet dared to tell her all . 
I shall suffer great anxiety until I hear that the vessel has sailed . 
My mistress is very good she has given me an advance on my wages , or I could not have sent thee any thing . 
Mother thinks thou art still in Leipzig why didst thou stay there so long ? but no difference thy money would have gone anyhow . 
It was nevertheless singular that Otto should be without money , so soon after the appropriation of Count Kasincsky's funds . 
Perhaps a sentence in one of the sister's letters Forget thy disappointment so far as I am concerned , for I never expected any thing referred to something of the kind . 
On the whole , service seemed more likely than kinship but in that case the papers must have been stolen . 
I had endeavored , from the start , to keep my sympathies out of the investigation , lest they should lead me to misinterpret the broken evidence , and thus defeat my object . 
However , I detected the feeling at this stage of the examination , and turned to the American records , in order to get rid of it . 
The principal paper was the list of addresses of which I have spoken . 
I looked over it in vain , to find some indication of its purpose yet it had been carefully made out and much used . 
There was no name of a person upon it , only numbers and streets , one hundred and thirty eight in all . 
One was a German gentleman , and the other two were Americans who had visited Germany . 
I found that , when I gave to one , a dozen others came within the next fortnight when I refused , the persecution ceased for about the same length of time . 
The meaning of the list of addresses was now plain . 
My nascent commiseration for the man was not only checked , but I was in danger of changing my role from that of culprit's counsel to that of prosecuting attorney . 
I left , but I shall go back . 
He gave me the ring , and meant . 
This was all I could make out . 
The other papers showed only scattered memoranda , of money , or appointments , or addresses , with the exception of the diary in pencil . 
I read the letter attentively , and at first with very little idea of its meaning . 
Many of the words were abbreviated , and there were some arbitrary signs . 
It ran over a period of about four months , terminating six weeks before the man's death . 
He had been wandering about the country during this period , sleeping in woods and barns , and living principally upon milk . 
The condition of his pulse and other physical functions was scrupulously set down , with an occasional remark of good or bad . 
The conclusion was at last forced upon me that he had been endeavoring to commit suicide by a slow course of starvation and exposure . 
Either as the cause or the result of this attempt , I read , in the final notes , signs of an aberration of mind . 
This also explained the singular demeanor of the man when found , and his refusal to take medicine or nourishment . 
He had selected a long way to accomplish his purpose , but had reached the end at last . 
The confused material had now taken shape the dead man , despite his will , had confessed to me his name and the chief events of his life . 
This was not so much a mere venture as the reader may suppose , because the two actions of the mind test each other . 
If they cannot , thus working towards a point and back again , actually discover what WAS , they may at least fix upon a very probable MIGHT HAVE BEEN . 
A person accustomed to detective work would have obtained my little stock of facts with much less trouble , and would , almost instinctively , have filled the blanks as he went along . 
Being an apprentice in such matters , I had handled the materials awkwardly . 
I will not here retrace my own mental zigzags between character and act , but simply repeat the story as I finally settled and accepted it . 
Otto Lindenschmidt was the child of poor parents in or near Breslau . 
His father died when he was young his mother earned a scanty subsistence as a washerwoman his sister went into service . 
The boy and his humble relatives , dazzled by this opportunity , began secretly to consider the favor as almost equivalent to his adoption as a son . 
In his disappointment , the latter retained certain family papers which the Baron had intrusted to his keeping . 
The ring was a gift , and he wore it in remembrance of his benefactor . 
Jean first detected Otto's passion Jean , at an epicurean dinner , wormed out of Otto the secret of the Herisau documents , and perhaps suggested the part which the latter afterwards played . 
This Jean seemed to me to have been the evil agency in the miserable history which followed . 
After the theft , and the partition , which took place beyond the Polish frontier , Jean in turn , stole his accomplice's share , together with the Von Herisau documents . 
Exile and a year's experience of organized mendicancy did the rest . 
Otto Lindenschmidt was one of those natures which possess no moral elasticity which have neither the power nor the comprehension of atonement . 
The first real , unmitigated guilt whether great or small breaks them down hopelessly . 
He expected no chance of self redemption , and he found none . 
His life in America was so utterly dark and hopeless that the brightest moment in it must have been that which showed him the approach of death . 
I had tracked this weak , vain , erring , hunted soul to its last refuge , and the knowledge bequeathed to me but a single duty . 
His sins were balanced by his temptations his vanity and weakness had revenged themselves and there only remained to tell the simple , faithful sister that her sacrifices were no longer required . 
This , I supposed , was the end of the history , so far as my connection with it was concerned . 
But one cannot track a secret with impunity the fatality connected with the act and the actor clings even to the knowledge of the act . 
My friend and his friends had already been at the place a fortnight , and knew the very tint and texture of its gossip . 
Behind the pair went an elderly couple , overdressed and snobbish in appearance . 
A carriage , with servants in livery , waited in the open space below the terrace , and having received the two couples , whirled swiftly away towards Altenstein . 
Had I been more of a philosopher I should have wasted no second thought on the Baron von Herisau . 
The list of guests which the landlord gave me whetted my curiosity to a painful degree for on it I found the entry Aug . 
Otto V. Herisau , Rentier , East Prussia . 
It was quite dark when the carriage returned . 
I watched the company into the supper room , and then , whisking in behind them , secured a place at the nearest table . 
I had an hour of quiet , stealthy observation before my Coburg friend discovered me , and by that time I was glad of his company and had need of his confidence . 
But , before making use of him in the second capacity , I desired to make the acquaintance of the adjoining partie carree . 
My seat was beside the Baron von Herisau , with whom I exchanged the usual commonplaces after an introduction . 
I noticed , however , that he cast a sudden , sharp glance at me , when I was presented to the company as an American . 
The man's neighborhood disturbed me . 
I was obliged to let the conversation run in the channels already selected , and stupid enough I found them . 
My friend was inclined to think my conjecture correct , and willingly co operated with me in a plan to test the matter . 
If our scheme should seem a little melodramatic , it must not be forgotten that my friend was an author . 
I made , as if by accident , a gesture with my hand , indicating success , and went a step further . 
I pointed out a retired spot , just before reaching which we were joined by my friend , who suddenly stepped out from behind a clump of lilacs . 
The Baron and he saluted each other . 
Now , said I to the former , I can ask your advice , Mr. Johann Helm ! He was not an adept , after all . 
His astonishment and confusion were brief , to be sure , but they betrayed him so completely that his after impulse to assume a haughty , offensive air only made us smile . 
If I had a message to you from Otto Lindenschmidt , what then ? I asked . 
He turned pale , and presently stammered out , He he is dead ! Now , said my friend , it is quite time to drop the mask before us . 
You see we know you , and we know your history . 
Not from Otto Lindenschmidt alone Count Ladislas Kasincsky What ! Has he come back from Siberia ? exclaimed Johann Helm . 
Our object , however , was to ascertain through him the complete facts of Otto Lindenschmidt's history , and then to banish him from Liebenstein . 
My guesses were very nearly correct . 
Otto Lindenschmidt had been educated by an old Baron , Bernhard von Herisau , on account of his resemblance in person to a dead son , whose name had also been Otto . 
He had inherited a little property from his benefactor , but soon ran through it . 
He was a light headed fellow , said Johann Helm , but he knew how to get the confidence of the old Junkers . 
If he hadn't been so cowardly and fidgety , he might have made himself a career . 
The Polish episode differed so little from my interpretation that I need not repeat Helm's version . 
It seems that he had been fearful of Lindenschmidt's return from America , for he managed to communicate with his sister in Breslau , and in this way learned the former's death . 
Not until then had he dared to assume his present disguise . 
We let him go , after exacting a solemn pledge that he would betake himself at once to Hamburg , and there ship for Australia . 
The sudden departure of the Baron von Herisau was a two days' wonder at Liebenstein but besides ourselves , only the Bremen banker knew the secret . 
He also left , two days afterwards , with his wife and daughter their cases , it was reported , requiring Kissingen . 
Otto Lindenschmidt's life , therefore , could not hide itself . 
Can any life ? TWIN LOVE . 
When John Vincent , after waiting twelve years , married Phebe Etheridge , the whole neighborhood experienced that sense of relief and satisfaction which follows the triumph of the right . 
There were two views of the case when John Vincent's love for Phebe , and old Reuben Etheridge's hard prohibition of the match , first became known to the community . 
Reuben Etheridge was rich , and , in addition to what his daughter would naturally inherit from him , she already possessed more than her lover , at the time of their betrothal . 
This in the eyes of one class was a sufficient reason for the father's hostility . 
wholly in the present , they neither take tenderness from the past nor warning from the possibilities of the future . 
It is the exceptional men and women who remember their youth . 
John Vincent loved his wife with the tenderness of an innocent man , but all his tenderness could not avail to lift the weight of settled melancholy which had gathered upon her . 
Two or three years passed , and new life came to the Vincent farm . 
One day , between midnight and dawn , the family pair was doubled the cry of twin sons was heard in the hushed house . 
But her will , fortunately , was as faint as her consciousness she gradually drifted out of danger , taking her returning strength with a passive acquiescence rather than with joy . 
Two staring , dark faced creatures , with restless fists and feet , they were alike in every least feature of their grotesque animality . 
Phebe placed a hand under the head of each , and looked at them for a long time in silence . 
Why is this ? she said , at last , taking hold of a narrow pink ribbon , which was tied around the wrist of one . 
He's the oldest , sure , the nurse answered . 
Take off the ribbon , then , said Phebe quietly I know them . 
I see no difference at all , Phebe , said John and how can we divide them ? We will not divide , she answered I only meant it as a sign . 
She smiled , for the first time in many days . 
He was glad of heart , but did not understand her . 
What shall we call them ? he asked . 
Elias and Reuben , after our fathers ? No , John their names must be David and Jonathan . 
And so they were called . 
And they grew , not less , but more alike , in passing through the stages of babyhood . 
The ribbon of the older one had been removed , and the nurse would have been distracted , but for Phebe's almost miraculous instinct . 
The former comforted herself with the hope that teething would bring a variation to the two identical mouths but no ! they teethed as one child . 
All trouble might have been avoided , had Phebe consented to the least variation in their dresses but herein she was mildly immovable . 
If they are spared to grow up , there must be some way of knowing one from the other . 
THEY will not need it , and I , too , think only of them . 
They have taken the cross from my heart , and I will lay none on theirs . 
I am reconciled to my life through them , John you have been very patient and good with me , and I will yield to you in all things but in this . 
I do not think I shall live to see them as men grown yet , while we are together , I feel clearly what it is right to do . 
Can you not , just once , have a little faith without knowledge , John ? I'll try , Phebe , he said . 
Any way , I'll grant that the boys belong to you more than to me . 
Phebe Vincent's character had verily changed . 
Her attacks of semi hysterical despondency never returned her gloomy prophecies ceased . 
David and Jonathan grew as one boy the taste and temper of one was repeated in the other , even as the voice and features . 
He procured garments of different colors , but they were accustomed to wear each article in common , and the result was only a mixture of tints for both . 
They were sent to different schools , to be returned the next day , equally pale , suffering , and incapable of study . 
Whatever device was employed , they evaded it by a mutual instinct which rendered all external measures unavailing . 
To John Vincent's mind their resemblance was an accidental misfortune , which had been confirmed through their mother's fancy . 
He felt that they were bound by some deep , mysterious tie , which , inasmuch as it might interfere with all practical aspects of life , ought to be gradually weakened . 
Two bodies , to him , implied two distinct men , and it was wrong to permit a mutual dependence which prevented either from exercising his own separate will and judgment . 
But , while he was planning and pondering , the boys became young men , and he was an old man . 
Old , and prematurely broken for he had worked much , borne much , and his large frame held only a moderate measure of vital force . 
A great weariness fell upon him , and his powers began to give way , at first slowly , but then with accelerated failure . 
He saw the end coming , long before his sons suspected it his doubt , for their sakes , was the only thing which made it unwelcome . 
to speak to them of the future , and at last the proper moment came . 
It was a stormy November evening . 
Wind and rain whirled and drove among the trees outside , but the sitting room of the old farm house was bright and warm . 
The housekeeper and hired man had gone to bed , and all was still in the house . 
John waited until he heard the volume closed , and then spoke . 
Boys , he said , let me have a bit of talk with you . 
I don't seem to get over my ailments rightly , never will , maybe . 
A man must think of things while there's time , and say them when they HAVE to be said . 
I don't know as there's any particular hurry in my case only , we never can tell , from one day to another . 
But two of you will need two farms for two families for you won't have to wait twelve years , like your mother and me . 
We don't want another farm , father ! said David and Jonathan together . 
I know you don't think so , now . 
A wife seemed far enough off from me when I was your age . 
You've always been satisfied to be with each other , but that can't last . 
It was partly your mother's notion I remember her saying that our burden had passed into you . 
I never quite understood what she meant , but I suppose it must rather be the opposite of what WE had to bear . 
The twins listened with breathless attention while their father , suddenly stirred by the past , told them the story of his long betrothal . 
should put you asunder , do as I ought to have done , not as I did ! And , maybe , this advice is the best legacy I can leave you . 
But , father , said David , speaking for both , we have never thought of marrying . 
Likely enough , their father answered we hardly ever think of what surely comes . 
But to me , looking back , it's plain . 
And this is the reason why I want you to make me a promise , and as solemn as if I was on my death bed . 
Maybe I shall be , soon . 
Tears gathered in the eyes of the twins . 
What is it , father ? they both said . 
Nothing at all to any other two boys , but I don't know how YOU'll take it . 
What if I was to ask you to live apart for a while ? Oh father ! both cried . 
They leaned together , cheek pressing cheek , and hand clasping hand , growing white and trembling . 
John Vincent , gazing into the fire , did not see their faces , or his purpose might have been shaken . 
I don't say NOW , he went on . 
After a while , when well , when I'm dead . 
And I only mean a beginning , to help you toward what HAS to be . 
Only a month I don't want to seem hard to you but that's little , in all conscience . 
Give me your word say , For mother's sake ! There was a long pause . 
Then David and Jonathan said , in low , faltering voices , For mother's sake , I promise . 
Remember that you were only boys to her . 
She might have made all this seem easier , for women have reasons for things no man can answer . 
Mind , within a year after I'm gone ! He rose and tottered out of the room . 
The twins looked at each other David said , Must we ? and Jonathan , How can we ? Then they both thought , It may be a long while yet . 
Here was a present comfort , and each seemed to hold it firmly in holding the hand of the other , as they fell asleep side by side . 
The trial was nearer than they imagined . 
This must be fulfilled , and then one thing was certain they would never again separate . 
The sooner the better , said David . 
It shall be the visit to our uncle and cousins in Indiana . 
You will come with me as far as Harrisburg it may be easier to part there than here . 
And our new neighbors , the Bradleys , will want your help for a day or two , after getting home . 
And we have never really borne any part of it ! Father must have been right in forcing us to promise . 
Every day the discussion was resumed , and always with the same termination . 
During the separation no letters passed between them . 
When the neighbors asked Jonathan for news of his brother , he always replied , He is well , and avoided further speech with such evidence of pain that they spared him . 
An hour before the month drew to an end , he walked forth alone , taking the road to the nearest railway station . 
Do you remember what father said about loving and marrying ? It comes into my mind whenever I see Ruth but she has no sister . 
But we need not both marry , David replied , that might part us , and this will not . 
It is for always now . 
At the click of the gate latch she started and turned towards him . 
Her light gingham bonnet , falling back , disclosed a long oval face , fair and delicate , sweet brown eyes , and brown hair laid smoothly over the temples . 
A soft flush rose suddenly to her cheeks , and he felt that his own were burning . 
Oh Jonathan ! she exclaimed , transferring the roses to her left hand , and extending her right , as she came forward . 
He was too accustomed to the name to recognize her mistake at once , and the word Ruth ! came naturally to his lips . 
I should know your brother David has come , she then said even if I had not heard so . 
How glad I am ! Is he not here ? David asked . 
No but there he is now , surely ! She turned towards the lane , where Jonathan was dismounting . 
But David also took the latter to himself , and when they left , Ruth had apparently forgotten that there was any difference in the length of their acquaintance . 
On their way homewards David said Father was right . 
We must marry , like others , and Ruth is the wife for us , I mean for you , Jonathan . 
Yes , we must learn to say MINE and YOURS , after all , when we speak of her . 
Even she cannot separate us , it seems , Jonathan answered . 
We must give her some sign , and that will also be a sign for others . 
It will seem strange to divide ourselves we can never learn it properly rather let us not think of marriage . 
We cannot help thinking of it she stands in mother's place now , as we in father's . 
Then both became silent and thoughtful . 
They felt that something threatened to disturb what seemed to be the only possible life for them , yet were unable to distinguish its features , and therefore powerless to resist it . 
The same instinct which had been born of their wonderful spiritual likeness told them that Ruth Bradley already loved Jonathan the duty was established , and they must conform their lives to it . 
There was , however , this slight difference between their natures that David was generally the first to utter the thought which came to the minds of both . 
So when he said , We shall learn what to do when the need comes , it was a postponement of all foreboding . 
They drifted contentedly towards the coming change . 
The days went by , and their visits to Ruth Bradley were continued . 
Sometimes Jonathan went alone , but they were usually together , and the tie which united the three became dearer and sweeter as it was more closely drawn . 
Ruth learned to distinguish between the two when they were before her at least she said so , and they were willing to believe it . 
But she was hardly aware how nearly alike was the happy warmth in her bosom produced by either pair of dark gray eyes and the soft half smile which played around either mouth . 
To them she seemed to be drawn within the mystic circle which separated them from others she , alone and they no longer imagined a life in which she should not share . 
Then the inevitable step was taken . 
Jonathan declared his love , and was answered . 
Alas ! he almost forgot David that late summer evening , as they sat in the moonlight , and over and over again assured each other how dear they had grown . 
He felt the trouble in David's heart when they met . 
Oh , this cannot be our burden ! Jonathan cried , with all the rapture still warm in his heart . 
If it is , it will be light , or heavy , or none at all , as we shall bear it , David answered , with a smile of infinite tenderness . 
For several days he allowed Jonathan to visit the Bradley farm alone , saying that it must be so on Ruth's account . 
Her love , he declared , must give her the fine instinct which only their mother had ever possessed , and he must allow it time to be confirmed . 
You must go alone , said Jonathan , to satisfy yourself that she knows us at last . 
Ruth came forth from the house as he drew near . 
Her face beamed she laid her hands upon his shoulders and kissed him . 
Now you cannot doubt me , Ruth ! he said , gently . 
Doubt you , Jonathan ! she exclaimed with a fond reproach in her eyes . 
But you look troubled is any thing the matter ? I was thinking of my brother , said David , in a low tone . 
Tell me what it is , she said , drawing him into the little arbor of woodbine near the gate . 
They took seats side by side on the rustic bench . 
He thinks I may come between you is it not that ? she asked . 
Only one thing was clear to David's mind that she would surely speak more frankly and freely of him to the supposed Jonathan than to his real self . 
This once he would permit the illusion . 
Not more than must be , he answered . 
He knew all from the very beginning . 
But we have been like one person in two bodies , and any change seems to divide us . 
I feel as you do , said Ruth . 
I would never consent to be your wife , if I could really divide you . 
I love you both too well for that . 
Do you love me ? he asked , entirely forgetting his representative part . 
Again the reproachful look , which faded away as she met his eyes . 
She fell upon his breast , and gave him kisses which were answered with equal tenderness . 
Suddenly he covered his face with his hands , and burst into a passion of tears . 
Jonathan ! Oh Jonathan ! she cried , weeping with alarm and sympathetic pain . 
It was long before he could speak but at last , turning away his head , he faltered , I am David ! There was a long silence . 
When he looked up she was sitting with her hands rigidly clasped in her lap her face was very pale . 
There it is , Ruth , he said we are one heart and one soul . 
Could he love , and not I ? You cannot decide between us , for one is the other . 
If I had known you first , Jonathan would be now in my place . 
What follows , then ? No marriage , she whispered . 
No ! he answered we brothers must learn to be two men instead of one . 
You will partly take my place with Jonathan I must live with half my life , unless I can find , somewhere in the world , your other half . 
I cannot part you , David ! Something stronger than you or me parts us , Ruth . 
If it were death , we should bow to God's will well , it can no more be got away from than death or judgment . 
Say no more the pattern of all this was drawn long before we were born , and we cannot do any thing but work it out . 
He rose and stood before her . 
Remember this , Ruth , he said it is no blame in us to love each other . 
Jonathan will see the truth in my face when we meet , and I speak for him also . 
Ah , after death ! she thought I have parted them forever . 
She was about to rise , but fell upon the seat again , fainting . 
At the same moment Jonathan appeared at David's side . 
They bore her forth and supported her between them until the fresh breeze had restored her to consciousness . 
Her first glance rested on the brother's hands , clasping then , looking from one to the other , she saw that the cheeks of both were wet . 
How that poor twin heart struggled with itself is only known to God . 
All human voices , and as they believed , also the Divine Voice , commanded the division of their interwoven life . 
Submission would have seemed easier , could they have taken up equal and similar burdens but David was unable to deny that his pack was overweighted . 
For the first time , their thoughts began to diverge . 
At last David said For mother's sake , Jonathan , as we promised . 
She always called you HER child . 
And for Ruth's sake , and father's last advice they all tell me what I must do . 
It was like the struggle between will and desire , in the same nature , and none the less fierce or prolonged because the softer quality foresaw its ultimate surrender . 
Long after he felt the step to be inevitable , Jonathan sought to postpone it , but he was borne by all combined influences nearer and nearer to the time . 
And now the wedding day came . 
David was to leave home the same evening , after the family dinner under his father's roof . 
Whenever you want me , I shall know it and I think I shall know when to return . 
The hearts of all the people went out towards them as they stood together in the little village church . 
Both were calm , but very pale and abstracted in their expression , yet their marvellous likeness was still unchanged . 
Ruth's eyes were cast down so they could not be seen she trembled visibly , and her voice was scarcely audible when she spoke the vow . 
It was only known in the neighborhood that David was going to make another journey . 
The truth could hardly have been guessed by persons whose ideas follow the narrow round of their own experiences had it been , there would probably have been more condemnation than sympathy . 
But in a vague way the presence of some deeper element was felt the falling of a shadow , although the outstretched wing was unseen . 
Far above them , and above the shadow , watched the Infinite Pity , which was not denied to three hearts that day . 
It was a long time , more than a year , and Ruth was lulling her first child on her bosom , before a letter came from David . 
He had wandered westwards , purchased some lands on the outer line of settlement , and appeared to be leading a wild and lonely life . 
I know now , he wrote , just how much there is to bear , and how to bear it . 
Strange men come between us , but you are not far off when I am alone on these plains . 
There is a place where I can always meet you , and I know that you have found it , under the big ash tree by the barn . 
I think I am nearly always there about sundown , and on moonshiny nights , because we are then nearest together and I never sleep without leaving you half my blanket . 
When I first begin to wake I always feel your breath , so we are never really parted for long . 
But we are hardly as unhappy as we feared to be mother came the other night , in a dream , and took us on her knees . 
As a neighbor said after visiting them , There seemed to be something lost . 
She knew not how it came , but her own nature took upon itself the same habit . 
To both their life was like one of those conjurer's cups , seemingly filled with red wine , which is held from the lips by the false crystal hollow . 
Neither spoke of this neither dared to speak . 
The years dragged out their slow length , with rare and brief messages from David . 
Three children were in the house , and still peace and plenty laid their signs upon its lintels . 
But at last Ruth , who had been growing thinner and paler ever since the birth of her first boy , became seriously ill . 
Consumption was hers by inheritance , and it now manifested itself in a form which too surely foretold the result . 
Don't grieve , she said this is my share of the burden . 
If I have taken too much from you and David , now comes the atonement . 
Many things have grown clear to me . 
David was right when he said that there was no blame . 
But my time is even less than the doctor thinks where is David ? Can you not bid him come ? I can only call him with my heart , he answered . 
And will he hear me now , after nearly seven years ? Call , then ! she eagerly cried . 
Call with all the strength of your love for him and for me , and I believe he will hear you ! The sun was just setting . 
Jonathan went to the great ash tree , behind the barn , fell upon his knees , and covered his face , and the sense of an exceeding bitter cry filled his heart . 
It was hardly for the space of a thought , but he knew the sign . 
David will come ! he said to Ruth . 
From that day all was changed . 
The cloud of coming death which hung over the house was transmuted into fleecy gold . 
All the lost life came back to Jonathan's face , all the unrestful sweetness of Ruth's brightened into a serene beatitude . 
Months had passed since David had been heard from they knew not how to reach him without many delays yet neither dreamed of doubting his coming . 
Two weeks passed , three , and there was neither word nor sign . 
Jonathan and Ruth thought , He is near , and one day a singular unrest fell upon the former . 
One brother paused at the foot of the bed the other drew near and bent over her . 
I was far away , among wild mountains , when I felt that Jonathan was calling me . 
I knew that I must return , never to leave you more , and there was still a little work to finish . 
I DO live , as never before . 
She faded slowly and painlessly , taking the equal love of the twin hearts , and giving an equal tenderness and gratitude . 
Then first she saw the mysterious need which united them , the fulness and joy wherewith each completed himself in the other . 
All the imperfect past was enlightened , and the end , even that now so near , was very good . 
And Jonathan's children , now growing into manhood and girlhood , also call David father . 
They talk of our Ruth with no sadness , for they believe that death will make them one , when , at the same moment , he summons both . 
And we who know them , to whom they have confided the touching mystery of their nature , believe so too . 
On reaching Waterbury , in the soft spring twilight , Mr. Johnson walked up and down in front of the station , curiously scanning the faces of the assembled crowd . 
Presently he noticed a gentleman who was performing the same operation upon the faces of the alighting passengers . 
Throwing himself directly in the way of the latter , the two exchanged a steady gaze . 
was not of long duration , for in five minutes thereafter she stood at the door of her husband's chocolate colored villa , receiving his friend . 
His voice was undertoned , but mellow and agreeable . 
Mrs. Eunice Billings , of nearly equal age , was a good specimen of the wide awake New England woman . 
Her face had a piquant smartness of expression , which might have been refined into a sharp edge , but for her natural hearty good humor . 
Her form , neither plump nor square , had yet a firm , elastic compactness , and her slightest movement conveyed a certain impression of decision and self reliance . 
His complexion was dark , from the bronzing of fifteen summers in New Orleans . 
He was a member of a wholesale hardware firm in that city , and had now revisited his native North for the first time since his departure . 
A year before , some letters relating to invoices of metal buttons signed , Foster , Kirkup , Co . 
, per Enos Billings , had accidentally revealed to him the whereabouts of the old friend of his youth , with whom we now find him domiciled . 
The first thing he did , after attending to some necessary business matters in New York , was to take the train for Waterbury . 
, I wonder which of us is most changed . 
You , of course , said Mr. Billings , with your brown face and big mustache . 
Your own brother wouldn't have known you if he had seen you last , as I did , with smooth cheeks and hair of unmerciful length . 
Why , not even your voice is the same ! That is easily accounted for , replied Mr. Johnson . 
But in your case , Enos , I am puzzled to find where the difference lies . 
Your features seem to be but little changed , now that I can examine them at leisure yet it is not the same face . 
But , really , I never looked at you for so long a time , in those days . 
I beg pardon you used to be so so remarkably shy . 
Mr. Billings blushed slightly , and seemed at a loss what to answer . 
The A. C. ! said Mr. Billings . 
your own fit of candor ? And she laughed again , more heartily than ever . 
What a precious lot of fools , to be sure ! exclaimed her husband . 
Mr. Johnson , meanwhile , though enjoying the cheerful humor of his hosts , was not a little puzzled with regard to its cause . 
What is the A. C. ? he ventured to ask . 
Mr. and Mrs. Billings looked at each other , and smiled without replying . 
Really , Ned , said the former , finally , the answer to your question involves the whole story . 
Then why not tell him the whole story , Enos ? remarked his wife . 
However , he continued , absurd as the story may seem , it's the only key to the change in my life , and I must run the risk of being laughed at . 
I'll help you through , Enos , said his wife , encouragingly and besides , my role in the farce was no better than yours . 
Let us resuscitate , for to night only , the constitution of the A. C. Upon my word , a capital idea ! But we shall have to initiate Ned . 
Mr. Johnson merrily agreeing , he was blindfolded and conducted into another room . 
A heavy arm chair , rolling on casters , struck his legs in the rear , and he sank into it with lamb like resignation . 
Open your mouth ! was the command , given with mock solemnity . 
Now shut it ! And his lips closed upon a cigar , while at the same time the handkerchief was whisked away from his eyes . 
He found himself in Mr. Billing's library . 
Your nose betrays your taste , Mr. Johnson , said the lady , and I am not hard hearted enough to deprive you of the indulgence . 
Well , said he , acting upon the hint , if the remainder of the ceremonies are equally agreeable , I should like to be a permanent member of your order . 
will now be held ! Was it in when you left home , Ned ? asked Mr. B. Yes . 
Well , the A. C. culminated in . 
You remember something of the society of Norridgeport , the last winter you were there ? Abel Mallory , for instance ? Let me think a moment , said Mr. Johnson reflectively . 
Really , it seems like looking back a hundred years . 
It harmed no one , however for the tar weed was already thick over her Californian grave . 
Oh , I see , said Mr. Billings , you still remember the absurdities of those days . 
In fact , I think you partially saw through them then . 
But I was younger , and far from being so clear headed , and I looked upon those evenings at Shelldrake's as being equal , at least , to the symposia of Plato . 
Something in Mallory always repelled me . 
I detested the sight of his thick nose , with the flaring nostrils , and his coarse , half formed lips , of the bluish color of raw corned beef . 
But I looked upon these feelings as unreasonable prejudices , and strove to conquer them , seeing the admiration which he received from others . 
He was an oracle on the subject of Nature . 
These pimples he looked upon as the last feeble stand made by the pernicious juices left from the meat he had formerly eaten and the coffee he had drunk . 
His theory was , that through a body so purged and purified none but true and natural impulses could find access to the soul . 
Such , indeed , was the theory we all held . 
A Return to Nature was the near Millennium , the dawn of which we already beheld in the sky . 
To be sure there was a difference in our individual views as to how this should be achieved , but we were all agreed as to what the result should be . 
I can laugh over those days now , Ned but they were really happy while they lasted . 
We were the salt of the earth we were lifted above those grovelling instincts which we saw manifested in the lives of others . 
Each contributed his share of gas to inflate the painted balloon to which we all clung , in the expectation that it would presently soar with us to the stars . 
But it only went up over the out houses , dodged backwards and forwards two or three times , and finally flopped down with us into a swamp . 
And that balloon was the A. C. ? suggested Mr. Johnson . 
As President of this Chapter , I prohibit questions , said Eunice . 
And , Enos , don't send up your balloon until the proper time . 
Don't anticipate the programme , or the performance will be spoiled . 
I had almost forgotten that Ned is so much in the dark , her obedient husband answered . 
Eunice looked at him with laughing eyes , and shook her finger with a mock threat . 
Shelldrake , continued Mr. Billings , without noticing this by play , was a man of more pretence than real cultivation , as I afterwards discovered . 
There was an entire absence of conventionality at our meetings , and this , conpared with the somewhat stiff society of the village , was really an attraction . 
felt myself more at home there than in my father's house and if I didn't talk much , I had a pleasant feeling of being in harmony with those who did . 
I wish I could recollect some of the speeches made on that occasion . 
, and was estimating that in two or three months more he would be a true , unspoiled man . 
His complexion , nevertheless , was more clammy and whey like than ever . 
Yes , said he , I also am an Arcadian ! This false dual existence which I have been leading will soon be merged in the unity of Nature . 
Our lives must conform to her sacred law . 
Why , what made you think of that , Jesse ? said she . 
I've got an idea , while Abel's been talking , he answered . 
We've taken a house for the summer , down the other side of Bridgeport , right on the water , where there's good fishing and a fine view of the Sound . 
Now , there's room enough for all of us at least all that can make it suit to go . 
There we shall be perfectly free and untrammelled by the chains which still hang around us in Norridgeport . 
You know how often we have wanted to be set on some island in the Pacific Ocean , where we could build up a true society , right from the start . 
Now , here's a chance to try the experiment for a few months , anyhow . 
and cried out Splendid ! Arcadian ! I'll give up my school for the summer . 
He was ready for any thing which promised indulgence , and the indulgence of his sentimental tastes . 
I will do the fellow the justice to say that he was not a hypocrite . 
He firmly believed both in himself and his ideas especially the former . 
He pushed both hands through the long wisps of his drab colored hair , and threw his head back until his wide nostrils resembled a double door to his brain . 
A sudden enthusiasm fired us , and we grasped each other's hands in the hearty impulse of the moment . 
My own private intention to make a summer trip to the White Mountains had been relinquished the moment I heard Eunice give in her adhesion . 
I may as well confess , at once , that I was desperately in love , and afraid to speak to her . 
By the time Mrs. Sheldrake brought in the apples and water we were discussing the plan as a settled thing . 
Faith Levis couldn't go at which , I think , we were all secretly glad . 
We did not give much thought , either to the preparations in advance , or to our mode of life when settled there . 
We were to live near to Nature that was the main thing . 
What shall we call the place ? asked Eunice . 
Arcadia ! said Abel Mallory , rolling up his large green eyes . 
I am all the more interested in hearing them described . 
In one sense we were truly Arcadians no suspicion of impropriety , I verily believe , entered any of our minds . 
In our aspirations after what we called a truer life there was no material taint . 
We were fools , if you choose , but as far as possible from being sinners . 
I won't bore you with an account of our preparations . 
In fact , there was very little to be done . 
Mr. Shelldrake succeeded in hiring the house , with most of its furniture , so that but a few articles had to be supplied . 
My trunk contained more books than boots , more blank paper than linen . 
Two shirts will be enough , said Abel you can wash one of them any day , and dry it in the sun . 
The supplies consisted mostly of flour , potatoes , and sugar . 
There was a vegetable garden in good condition , Mr. Shelldrake said , which would be our principal dependence . 
Besides , the clams ! I exclaimed unthinkingly . 
Oh , yes ! said Eunice , we can have chowder parties that will be delightful ! Clams ! chowder ! oh , worse than flesh ! groaned Abel . 
Will you reverence Nature by outraging her first laws ? I had made a great mistake , and felt very foolish . 
Eunice and I looked at each other , for the first time . 
Speak for yourself only , Enos , gently interpolated his wife . 
It was a lovely afternoon in the beginning of June when we first approached Arcadia . 
We had taken two double teams at Bridgeport , and drove slowly forward to our destination , followed by a cart containing our trunks and a few household articles . 
Now and then we caught glimpses of the Sound , and , far beyond it , the dim Long Island shore . 
Every old white farmhouse , with its gray walled garden , its clumps of lilacs , viburnums , and early roses , offered us a picture of pastoral simplicity and repose . 
We passed them , one by one , in the happiest mood , enjoying the earth around us , the sky above , and ourselves most of all . 
The scenery , however , gradually became more rough and broken . 
Knobs of gray gneiss , crowned by mournful cedars , intrenched upon the arable land , and the dark blue gleam of water appeared through the trees . 
Towards the end of the promontory stood a house , with white walls shining against the blue line of the Sound . 
There is Arcadia , at last ! exclaimed Mr. Shelldrake . 
A general outcry of delight greeted the announcement . 
And , indeed , the loveliness of the picture surpassed our most poetic anticipations . 
The low sun was throwing exquisite lights across the point , painting the slopes of grass of golden green , and giving a pearly softness to the gray rocks . 
In the back ground was drawn the far off water line , over which a few specks of sail glimmered against the sky . 
This landscape surpasses any poem in the world . 
Let us enjoy the best thing we have , rather than the next best . 
All minor personal repugnances were smoothed over in the general exultation . 
Even Abel Mallory became agreeable and Hollins , sitting beside Mrs. Shelldrake on the back seat of the foremost carriage , shouted to us , in boyish lightness of heart . 
Passing the head of the inlet , we left the country road , and entered , through a gate in the tottering stone wall , on our summer domain . 
It was quite an old frame building , two stories high , with a gambrel roof and tall chimneys . 
For flowers , there were masses of blue flags and coarse tawny red lilies , besides a huge trumpet vine which swung its pendent arms from one of the gables . 
In front of the house a natural lawn of mingled turf and rock sloped steeply down to the water , which was not more than two hundred yards distant . 
To the west was another and broader inlet of the Sound , out of which our Arcadian promontory rose bluff and bold , crowned with a thick fringe of pines . 
No one doubted the success of our experiment , for that evening at least . 
Perkins Brown , Shelldrake's boy of all work , awaited us at the door . 
His animal nature was predominant , and this led him to be deceitful . 
At that time , however , we all looked upon him as a proper young Arcadian , and hoped that he would develop into a second Abel Mallory . 
After our effects had been deposited on the stoop , and the carriages had driven away , we proceeded to apportion the rooms , and take possession . 
On the first floor there were three rooms , two of which would serve us as dining and drawing rooms , leaving the third for the Shelldrakes . 
The end was , we were all satisfied . 
Now for our first meal in Arcadia ! was the next cry . 
Mrs. Shelldrake , like a prudent housekeeper , marched off to the kitchen , where Perkins had already kindled a fire . 
We looked in at the door , but thought it best to allow her undisputed sway in such a narrow realm . 
We men , therefore , walked out to the garden , which we found in a promising condition . 
The usual vegetables had been planted and were growing finely , for the season was yet scarcely warm enough for the weeds to make much headway . 
Radishes , young onions , and lettuce formed our contribution to the table . 
The Shelldrakes , I should explain , had not yet advanced to the antediluvian point , in diet nor , indeed , had either Eunice or myself . 
We acknowledged the fascination of tea , we saw a very mitigated evil in milk and butter , and we were conscious of stifled longings after the abomination of meat . 
Only Mallory , Hollins , and Miss Ringtop had reached that loftiest round on the ladder of progress where the material nature loosens the last fetter of the spiritual . 
They looked down upon us , and we meekly admitted their right to do so . 
Our board , that evening , was really tempting . 
The absence of meat was compensated to us by the crisp and racy onions , and I craved only a little salt , which had been interdicted , as a most pernicious substance . 
I sat at one corner of the table , beside Perkins Brown , who took an opportunity , while the others were engaged in conversation , to jog my elbow gently . 
As I turned towards him , he said nothing , but dropped his eyes significantly . 
The little rascal had the lid of a blacking box , filled with salt , upon his knee , and was privately seasoning his onions and radishes . 
I blushed at the thought of my hypocrisy , but the onions were so much better that I couldn't help dipping into the lid with him . 
Oh , said Eunice , we must send for some oil and vinegar ! This lettuce is very nice . 
Oil and vinegar ? exclaimed Abel . 
Why , yes , said she , innocently they are both vegetable substances . 
My blood is at last pure . 
The struggle between the natural and the unnatural is over , and I am beyond the depraved influences of my former taste . 
My instincts are now , therefore , entirely pure also . 
What is good for man to eat , that I shall have a natural desire to eat what is bad will be naturally repelled . 
Indeed , as we were all half infected with the same delusions , it was not easy to answer his sophistries . 
What Abel said in regard to dietetic reform is true but that alone will not regenerate the race . 
We must rise superior to those conventional ideas of Duty whereby Life is warped and crippled . 
Life must not be a prison , where each one must come and go , work , eat , and sleep , as the jailer commands . 
Labor must not be a necessity , but a spontaneous joy . 
Perkins , sitting on the steps , gave a suppressed chuckle , which I think no one heard but myself . 
I was vexed with his levity , but , nevertheless , gave him a warning nudge with my toe , in payment for the surreptitious salt . 
That's just the notion I had , when I first talked of our coming here , said Shelldrake . 
, no harm will be done . 
We may become the turning point between two dispensations behind us every thing false and unnatural , before us every thing true , beautiful , and good . 
It resembles too much the thing we are trying to overthrow . 
Our platform to adopt your image has but one plank Truth . 
Let each only be true to himself BE himself , ACT himself , or herself with the uttermost candor . 
We can all agree upon that . 
The agreement was accordingly made . 
And certainly no happier or more hopeful human beings went to bed in all New England that night . 
I was presently joined by Shelldrake and Mallory , and between us we finished the onions and radishes , stuck the peas , and cleaned the alleys . 
Perkins , after milking the cow and turning her out to pasture , assisted Mrs. Shelldrake in the kitchen . 
At breakfast we were joined by Hollins , who made no excuse for his easy morning habits nor was one expected . 
I may as well tell you now , though , that his natural instincts never led him to work . 
After a week , when a second crop of weeds was coming on , Mallory fell off also , and thenceforth Shelldrake and myself had the entire charge of the garden . 
Perkins did the rougher work , and was always on hand when he was wanted . 
Very soon , however , I noticed that he was in the habit of disappearing for two or three hours in the afternoon . 
Our meals preserved the same Spartan simplicity . 
Indeed , his long abstinence from piquant flavors gave him such an appetite for it that our supply of lettuce was soon exhausted . 
An embarrassing accident also favored us with the use of salt . 
Perkins happening to move his knee at the moment I was dipping an onion into the blacking box lid , our supply was knocked upon the floor . 
He picked it up , and we both hoped the accident might pass unnoticed . 
But Abel , stretching his long neck across the corner of the table , caught a glimpse of what was going on . 
What's that ? he asked . 
, grew red with suppressed fun , but the others were as ignorant as Abel Mallory himself . 
Let me taste it , said he , stretching out an onion . 
I handed him the box lid , which still contained a portion of its contents . 
He dipped the onion , bit off a piece , and chewed it gravely . 
Why , said he , turning to me , it's very much like salt . 
But while we were laughing , Abel was finishing his onion , and the result was that Salt was added to the True Food , and thereafter appeared regularly on the table . 
The forenoons we usually spent in reading and writing , each in his or her chamber . 
Curious to find out the cause of his mysterious disappearances , I followed cautiously . 
From the edge of the wood I saw him enter a little gap between the rocks , which led down to the water . 
Presently a thread of blue smoke stole up . 
Quietly creeping along , I got upon the nearer bluff and looked down . 
There was a sort of hearth built up at the base of the rock , with a brisk little fire burning upon it , but Perkins had disappeared . 
I stretched myself out upon the moss , in the shade , and waited . 
In about half an hour up came Perkins , with a large fish in one hand and a lump of clay in the other . 
I now understood the mystery . 
He carefully imbedded the fish in a thin layer of clay , placed it on the coals , and then went down to the shore to wash his hands . 
On his return he found me watching the fire . 
Ho , ho , Mr. Enos ! said he , you've found me out But you won't say nothin' . 
Gosh ! you like it as well I do . 
Out of a hole in the rock he brought salt and the end of a loaf , and between us we finished the fish . 
Before long , I got into the habit of disappearing in the afternoon . 
Now and then we took walks , alone or collectively , to the nearest village , or even to Bridgeport , for the papers or a late book . 
The few purchases we required were made at such times , and sent down in a cart , or , if not too heavy , carried by Perkins in a basket . 
I think herrings must feed on sea weed , said he , there is such a vegetable attraction about them . 
After his violent vegetarian harangues , however , he hesitated about adding them to his catalogue . 
There was a splendid Rhode Island cheese on the counter , from which the shop mistress was just cutting a slice for a customer . 
Abel leaned over it , inhaling the rich , pungent fragrance . 
Enos , said he to me , between his sniffs , this impresses me like flowers like marigolds . 
It must be really yes , the vegetable element is predominant . 
My instinct towards it is so strong that I cannot be mistaken . 
May I taste it , ma'am ? The woman sliced off a thin corner , and presented it to him on the knife . 
Delicious ! he exclaimed I am right , this is the True Food . 
Give me two pounds and the crackers , ma'am . 
I turned away , quite as much disgusted as amused with this charlatanism . 
And yet I verily believe the fellow was sincere self deluded only . 
I had by this time lost my faith in him , though not in the great Arcadian principles . 
On reaching home , after an hour's walk , I found our household in unusual commotion . 
Mrs. Shelldrake , fortunately , had some mustard among her stores , and could therefore administer a timely emetic . 
His life was saved , but he was very ill for two or three days . 
Hollins did not fail to take advantage of this circumstance to overthrow the authority which Abel had gradually acquired on the subject of food . 
He was so arrogant in his nature that he could not tolerate the same quality in another , even where their views coincided . 
By this time several weeks had passed away . 
It was the beginning of July , and the long summer heats had come . 
I was driven out of my attic during the middle hours of the day , and the others found it pleasanter on the doubly shaded stoop than in their chambers . 
After that , she also often disappeared from sight for an hour or two in the afternoon . 
Oh , Mr. Johnson , interrupted Mrs. Billings , it wasn't for the fish ! Of course not , said her husband it was for my sake . 
No , you need not think it was for you . 
Enos , she added , perceiving the feminine dilemma into which she had been led , all this is not necessary to the story . 
The A. C. has been revived for this night only . 
Do you remember our platform , or rather no platform ? I must follow my impulses , and say whatever comes uppermost . 
Right , Enos , said Mr. Johnson I , as temporary Arcadian , take the same ground . 
My instinct tells me that you , Mrs. Billings , must permit the confession . 
She submitted with a good grace , and her husband continued I said that our lazy life during the hot weather had become a little monotonous . 
The Arcadian plan had worked tolerably well , on the whole , for there was very little for any one to do Mrs. Shelldrake and Perkins Brown excepted . 
Our conversation , however , lacked spirit and variety . 
We were , perhaps unconsciously , a little tired of hearing and assenting to the same sentiments . 
But one evening , about this time , Hollins struck upon a variation , the consequences of which he little foresaw . 
How much we should gain , were candor as universal as concealment ! Then each one , seeing himself as others see him , would truly know himself . 
Well put , said he , though I do not say that you are entirely correct . 
Now , what are my merits ? You are clear sighted , I answered , an earnest seeker after truth , and courageous in the avowal of your thoughts . 
This restored the balance , and we soon began to confess our own private faults and weaknesses . 
The next day , Abel , who had resumed his researches after the True Food , came home to supper with a healthier color than I had before seen on his face . 
There was no water only beer so I thought I would try a glass , simply as an experiment . 
Really , the flavor was very agreeable . 
And it occurred to me , on the way home , that all the elements contained in beer are vegetable . 
Besides , fermentation is a natural process . 
I think the question has never been properly tested before . 
But the alcohol ! exclaimed Hollins . 
I could not distinguish any , either by taste or smell . 
The rest of us were much diverted it was a pleasant relief to our monotonous amiability . 
Abel , however , had a stubborn streak in his character . 
The next day he sent Perkins Brown to Bridgeport for a dozen bottles of Beer . 
brought pint bottles of Scotch ale , which he placed in the coolest part of the cellar . 
The evening happened to be exceedingly hot and sultry , and , as we were all fanning ourselves and talking languidly , Abel bethought him of his beer . 
In his thirst , he drank the contents of the first bottle , almost at a single draught . 
The effect of beer , said he , depends , I think , on the commixture of the nourishing principle of the grain with the cooling properties of the water . 
Perhaps , hereafter , a liquid food of the same character may be invented , which shall save us from mastication and all the diseases of the teeth . 
Hollins and Shelldrake , at his invitation , divided a bottle between them , and he took a second . 
The potent beverage was not long in acting on a brain so unaccustomed to its influence . 
He grew unusually talkative and sentimental , in a few minutes . 
Oh , sing , somebody ! he sighed in a hoarse rapture the night was made for Song . 
Miss Ringtop , nothing loath , immediately commenced , When stars are in the quiet skies but scarcely had she finished the first verse before Abel interrupted her . 
Candor's the order of the day , isn't it ? he asked . 
Yes ! Yes ! two or three answered . 
Well then , said he , candidly , Pauline , you've got the darn'dest squeaky voice' Miss Ringtop gave a faint little scream of horror . 
Oh , never mind ! he continued . 
We act according to impulse , don't we ? And I've the impulse to swear and it's right . 
Let Nature have her way . 
Listen ! Damn , damn , damn , damn ! I never knew it was so easy . 
Why , there's a pleasure in it ! Try it , Pauline ! try it on me ! Oh ooh ! was all Miss Ringtop could utter . 
Abel ! Abel ! exclaimed Hollins , the beer has got into your head . 
No , it isn't Beer , it's Candor ! said Abel . 
It's your own proposal , Hollins . 
Oh , he may fall into the water ! exclaimed Eunice , in alarm . 
He's not fool enough to do that , said Shelldrake . 
His head is a little light , that's all . 
The air will cool him down presently . 
But she arose and followed him , not satisfied with this assurance . 
Miss Ringtop sat rigidly still . 
She would have received with composure the news of his drowning . 
As Eunice's white dress disappeared among the cedars crowning the shore , I sprang up and ran after her . 
I knew that Abel was not intoxicated , but simply excited , and I had no fear on his account I obeyed an involuntary impulse . 
On approaching the water , I heard their voices hers in friendly persuasion , his in sentimental entreaty , then the sound of oars in the row locks . 
She had found him already in the boat , which was loosely chained to a stone . 
Stepping on one of the forward thwarts in her eagerness to persuade him to return , he sprang past her , jerked away the chain , and pushed off before she could escape . 
She would have fallen , but he caught her and placed her in the stern , and then seated himself at the oars . 
She must have been somewhat alarmed , but there was only indignation in her voice . 
All this had transpired before my arrival , and the first words I heard bound me to the spot and kept me silent . 
Abel , what does this mean ? she asked It means Fate Destiny ! he exclaimed , rather wildly . 
Ah , Eunice , ask the night , and the moon , ask the impulse which told you to follow me ! Let us be candid like the old Arcadians we imitate . 
Let us confess to each other ! The female heart should not be timid , in this pure and beautiful atmosphere of Love which we breathe . 
you will easily understand what tortures I endured , in thus hearing him speak . 
That HE should love Eunice ! It was a profanation to her , an outrage to me . 
I will not hear such language ! Take me back to the shore ! she said , in very short , decided tones . 
don't you love me , indeed ? I love you , from my heart I do yes , I love you . 
Tell me how you feel towards me . 
I do not love you , and I never shall . 
Let me go back to the house . 
His head dropped upon his breast , but he rowed back to the shore , drew the bow upon the rocks , and assisted her to land . 
Then , sitting down , he groaned forth Oh , Eunice , you have broken my heart ! and putting his big hands to his face , began to cry . 
She turned , placed one hand on his shoulder , and said in a calm , but kind tone I am very sorry , Abel , but I cannot help it . 
I slipped aside , that she might not see me , and we returned by separate paths . 
I slept very little that night . 
I felt sure that our little community could not hold together much longer without an explosion . 
I had a presentiment that Eunice shared my impressions . 
My feelings towards her had reached that crisis where a declaration was imperative but how to make it ? It was a terrible struggle between my shyness and my affection . 
There was another circumstance in connection with this subject , which troubled me not a little . 
Miss Ringtop evidently sought my company , and made me , as much as possible , the recipient of her sentimental outpourings . 
I was not bold enough to repel her indeed I had none of that tact which is so useful in such emergencies , and she seemed to misinterpret my submission . 
in a way that made me feel very uncomfortable . 
What if Eunice should suspect an attachment towards her , on my part . 
What if oh , horror ! I had unconsciously said or done something to impress Miss Ringtop herself with the same conviction ? I shuddered as the thought crossed my mind . 
One thing was very certain this suspense was not to be endured much longer . 
We had an unusually silent breakfast the next morning . 
Abel scarcely spoke , which the others attributed to a natural feeling of shame , after his display of the previous evening . 
Eunice was pale and thoughtful . 
I had no doubt in my mind , that she was already contemplating a removal from Arcadia . 
Perkins , whose perceptive faculties were by no means dull , whispered to me , Shan't I bring up some porgies for supper ? but I shook my head . 
I was busy with other thoughts , and did not join him in the wood , that day . 
The forenoon was overcast , with frequent showers . 
Each one occupied his or her room until dinner time , when we met again with something of the old geniality . 
There was an evident effort to restore our former flow of good feeling . 
Abel's experience with the beer was freely discussed . 
He insisted strongly that he had not been laboring under its effects , and proposed a mutual test . 
He , Shelldrake , and Hollins were to drink it in equal measures , and compare observations as to their physical sensations . 
The others agreed , quite willingly , I thought , but I refused . 
I had determined to make a desperate attempt at candor , and Abel's fate was fresh before my eyes . 
The sky had cleared , and the air was deliciously cool and sweet . 
The Sound was spread out before me like a sea , for the Long Island shore was veiled in a silvery mist . 
My mind was soothed and calmed by the influences of the scene , until the moon arose . 
Moonlight , you know , disturbs at least , when one is in love . 
I felt blissfully miserable , ready to cry with joy at the knowledge that I loved , and with fear and vexation at my cowardice , at the same time . 
Suddenly I heard a rustling beside me . 
Every nerve in my body tingled , and I turned my head , with a beating and expectant heart . 
Oh , how delicious ! she cried . 
I was thinking of Eunice . 
Oh , Enos , I WISH you were a poet ! But you FEEL poetry , I know you do . 
I have seen it in your eyes , when I quoted the burning lines of Adeliza Kelley , or the soul breathings of Gamaliel J. Gawthrop . 
In HIM , particularly , I find the voice of my own nature . 
Enos , do you understand me ? she asked , in a tender voice almost a whisper . 
Yes , said I , with a blushing confidence of my own passion . 
Then , she whispered , our hearts are wholly in unison . 
I know you are true , Enos . 
I know your noble nature , and I will never doubt you . 
Yes , Enos , DEAR Enos ! henceforth we belong to each other . 
and so affectedly sentimental , that I , sentimental as I was then , was sick of hearing her talk . 
You mistake ! I exclaimed . 
I didn't mean that , I didn't understand you . 
It can't be no , it can never be ! Let us go back to the house the night is cold . 
I rose hastily to my feet . 
In my excited mood , after the ordeal through which I had passed , everything seemed easy . 
My usual timidity was blown to the four winds . 
Even then , if I had hesitated , I should have been lost . 
But I went on , without pausing Eunice , I love you I have loved you since we first met . 
I came here that I might be near you but I must leave you forever , and to night , unless you can trust your life in my keeping . 
God help me , since we have been together I have lost my faith in almost everything but you . 
Pardon me , if I am impetuous different from what I have seemed . 
I have struggled so hard to speak ! I have been a coward , Eunice , because of my love . 
But now I have spoken , from my heart of hearts . 
Look at me I can bear it now . 
Read the truth in my eyes , before you answer . 
I felt her hand tremble while I spoke . 
As she turned towards me her face , which had been averted , the moon shone full upon it , and I saw that tears were upon her cheeks . 
What was said whether anything was said I cannot tell . 
I felt the blessed fact , and that was enough . 
That was the dawning of the true Arcadia . 
Mrs. Billings , who had been silent during this recital , took her husband's hand and smiled . 
Mr. Johnson felt a dull pang about the region of his heart . 
If he had a secret , however , I do not feel justified in betraying it . 
It was late , Mr. Billings continued , before we returned to the house . 
I had a special dread of again encountering Miss Ringtop , but she was wandering up and down the bluff , under the pines , singing , The dream is past . 
There was a sound of loud voices , as we approached the stoop . 
Hollins , Shelldrake and his wife , and Abel Mallory were sitting together near the door . 
He looked up at me from under his straw hat with the grin of a malicious Puck , glanced towards the group , and made a curious gesture with his thumb . 
There were several empty pint bottles on the stoop . 
Now , are you sure you can bear the test ? we heard Hollins ask , as we approached . 
Bear it ? Why to be sure ! replied Shelldrake if I couldn't bear it , or if YOU couldn't , your theory's done for . 
Try ! I can stand it as long as you can . 
Well , then , said Hollins , I think you are a very ordinary man . 
I derive no intellectual benefit from my intercourse with you , but your house is convenient to me . 
I'm under no obligations for your hospitality , however , because my company is an advantage to you . 
Indeed if I were treated according to my deserts , you couldn't do enough for me . 
Mrs. Shelldrake was up in arms . 
Indeed , she exclaimed , I think you get as good as you deserve , and more too . 
Elvira , said he , with a benevolent condescension , I have no doubt you think so , for your mind belongs to the lowest and most material sphere . 
You have your place in Nature , and you fill it but it is not for you to judge of intelligences which move only on the upper planes . 
Hollins , said Shelldrake , Elviry's a good wife and a sensible woman , and I won't allow you to turn up your nose at her . 
I am not surprised , he answered , that you should fail to stand the test . 
Let me try it on YOU ! cried Shelldrake . 
You , now , have some intellect , I don't deny that , but not so much , by a long shot , as you think you have . 
Besides that , you're awfully selfish in your opinions . 
You won't admit that anybody can be right who differs from you . 
You've sponged on me for a long time but I suppose I've learned something from you , so we'll call it even . 
I think , however , that what you call acting according to impulse is simply an excuse to cover your own laziness . 
Shelldrake , said he , I pity you . 
I always knew your ignorance , but I thought you honest in your human character . 
I never suspected you of envy and malice . 
However , the true Reformer must expect to be misunderstood and misrepresented by meaner minds . 
That love which I bear to all creatures teaches me to forgive you . 
Without such love , all plans of progress must fail . 
Abel , roused by Hollins's question , answered , with a sudden energy Love ! there is no love in the world . 
Where will you find it ? Tell me , and I'll go there . 
Love ! I'd like to see it ! If all human hearts were like mine , we might have an Arcadia but most men have no hearts . 
The world is a miserable , hollow , deceitful shell of vanity and hypocrisy . 
No let us give up . 
We were born before our time this age is not worthy of us . 
Hollins stared at the speaker in utter amazement . 
Shelldrake gave a long whistle , and finally gasped out Well , what next ? None of us were prepared for such a sudden and complete wreck of our Arcadian scheme . 
The foundations had been sapped before , it is true but we had not perceived it and now , in two short days , the whole edifice tumbled about our ears . 
Though it was inevitable , we felt a shock of sorrow , and a silence fell upon us . 
Only that scamp of a Perkins Brown , chuckling and rubbing his boot , really rejoiced . 
I could have kicked him . 
We all went to bed , feeling that the charm of our Arcadian life was over . 
I was so full of the new happiness of love that I was scarcely conscious of regret . 
In the first revulsion of feeling , I was perhaps unjust to my associates . 
Other attempts at reorganizing Society were made about the same time by men of culture and experience , but in the A. C. we had neither . 
Our leaders had caught a few half truths , which , in their minds , were speedily warped into errors . 
I can laugh over the absurdities I helped to perpetrate , but I must confess that the experiences of those few weeks went far towards making a man of me . 
Did the A. C. break up at once ? asked Mr. Johnson . 
Not precisely though Eunice and I left the house within two days , as we had agreed . 
We were not married immediately , however . 
Three long years years of hope and mutual encouragement passed away before that happy consummation . 
Before our departure , Hollins had fallen into his old manner , convinced , apparently , that Candor must be postponed to a better age of the world . 
But the quarrel rankled in Shelldrake's mind , and especially in that of his wife . 
I could see by her looks and little fidgety ways that his further stay would be very uncomfortable . 
Abel Mallory , finding himself gaining in weight and improving in color , had no thought of returning . 
The day previous , as I afterwards learned , he had discovered Perkins Brown's secret kitchen in the woods . 
Golly ! said that youth , in describing the circumstance to me , I had to ketch TWO porgies that day . 
Miss Ringtop , who must have suspected the new relation between Eunice and myself , was for the most part rigidly silent . 
If she quoted , it was from the darkest and dreariest utterances of her favorite Gamaliel . 
What happened after our departure I learned from Perkins , on the return of the Shelldrakes to Norridgeport , in September . 
Mrs. Shelldrake stoutly persisted in refusing to make Hollins's bed , or to wash his shirts . 
Her brain was dull , to be sure but she was therefore all the more stubborn in her resentment . 
He bore this state of things for about a week , when his engagements to lecture in Ohio suddenly called him away . 
Abel and Miss Ringtop were left to wander about the promontory in company , and to exchange lamentations on the hollowness of human hopes or the pleasures of despair . 
I think he would willingly have retreated , after his return to the world but that was not so easy . 
Miss Ringtop held him with an inexorable clutch . 
They were not married , however , until just before his departure for California , whither she afterwards followed him . 
She died in less than a year , and left him free . 
And what became of the other Arcadians ? asked Mr. Johnson . 
The Shelldrakes are still living in Norridgeport . 
They have become Spiritualists , I understand , and cultivate Mediums . 
Hollins , when I last heard of him , was a Deputy Surveyor in the New York Custom House . 
Enos ! exclaimed Mrs. Billings , looking at the clock , it's nearly midnight ! Mr. Johnson must be very tired , after such a long story . 
The Chapter of the A. C. is hereby closed ! FRIEND ELI'S DAUGHTER . 
He had been absent from home only six days , but the time seemed almost as long to him as a three years' cruise to a New Bedford whaleman . 
As easily could his collarless drab coat and waistcoat have flushed with a sudden gleam of purple or crimson . 
Eli Mitchenor was at peace with himself and the world that is , so much of the world as he acknowledged . 
He was returning home , in his own old fashioned chair , with its heavy square canopy and huge curved springs , from the Yearly Meeting of the Hicksite Friends , in Philadelphia . 
He would no more have thought of kicking than the latter would of swearing a huge oath . 
Moses , a man of twenty five , left his work in the garden , and walked forward in his shirt sleeves . 
Well , father , how does thee do ? was his quiet greeting , as they shook hands . 
How's mother , by this time ? asked Eli . 
Oh , thee needn't have been concerned , said the son . 
Go in I'll tend to the horse . 
Abigail and her daughter appeared on the piazza . 
The mother was a woman of fifty , thin and delicate in frame , but with a smooth , placid beauty of countenance which had survived her youth . 
Asenath , who followed , was almost as plainly attired , her dress being a dark blue calico , while a white pasteboard sun bonnet , with broad cape , covered her head . 
Well , Abigail , how art thou ? said Eli , quietly giving his hand to his wife . 
I'm glad to see thee back , was her simple welcome . 
No doubt they had kissed each other as lovers , but Asenath had witnessed this manifestation of affection but once in her life after the burial of a younger sister . 
So far , therefore , from expecting a paternal embrace , she would have felt , had it been given , like the doomed daughter of the Gileadite , consecrated to sacrifice . 
The old man enjoyed talking , but it must be in his own way and at his own good time . 
They must wait until the communicative spirit should move him . 
With the first cup of coffee the inspiration came . 
Finally , at the close of his relation , he said Abigail , there is one thing I must talk to thee about . 
Friend Speakman's partner , perhaps thee's heard of him , Richard Hilton , has a son who is weakly . 
He's two or three years younger than Moses . 
His mother was consumptive , and they're afraid he takes after her . 
I thought perhaps his board would buy the new yoke of oxen we must have in the fall , and the price of the fat ones might go to help set up Moses . 
But it's for thee to decide . 
I suppose we could take him , said Abigail , seeing that the decision was virtually made already there's the corner room , which we don't often use . 
Only , if he should get worse on our hands Friend Speakman says there's no danger . 
He is only weak breasted , as yet , and clerking isn't good for him . 
I saw the young man at the store . 
If his looks don't belie him , he's well behaved and orderly . 
So it was settled that Richard Hilton the younger was to be an inmate of Friend Mitchenor's house during the summer . 
At the end of ten days he came . 
In the under sized , earnest , dark haired and dark eyed young man of three and twenty , Abigail Mitchenor at once felt a motherly interest . 
Having received him as a temporary member of the family , she considered him entitled to the same watchful care as if he were in reality an invalid son . 
The ice over an hereditary Quaker nature is but a thin crust , if one knows how to break it and in Richard Hilton's case , it was already broken before his arrival . 
His only embarrassment , in fact , arose from the difficulty which he naturally experienced in adapting himself to the speech and address of the Mitchenor family . 
His city manners , he felt , instinctively , must be unlearned , or at least laid aside for a time . 
Yet it was not easy for him to assume , at such short notice , those of his hosts . 
Happening to address Asenath as Miss Mitchenor , Eli turned to him with a rebuking face . 
We do not use compliments , Richard , said he my daughter's name is Asenath . 
I will try to accustom myself to your ways , since you have been so kind as to take me for a while , apologized Richard Hilton . 
Thee's under no obligation to us , said Friend Mitchenor , in his strict sense of justice thee pays for what thee gets . 
The finer feminine instinct of Abigail led her to interpose . 
Thee knows , perhaps , that we're no respecters of persons . 
It was some days , however , before the young man could overcome his natural hesitation at the familiarity implied by these new forms of speech . 
On the other hand , his own modest and unobtrusive nature soon won the confidence and cordial regard of the family . 
As she approached him , she paused and said The time seems to hang heavy on thy hands , Richard . 
If thee's strong enough to walk to the village and back , it might do thee more good than sitting still . 
Richard Hilton at once jumped down from the wall . 
Certainly I am able to go , said he , if you will allow it . 
Haven't I asked thee ? was her quiet reply . 
Let me carry your basket , he said , suddenly , after they had walked , side by side , some distance down the lane . 
Indeed , I shall not let thee do that . 
I'm only going for the mail , and some little things at the store , that make no weight at all . 
Thee mustn't think I'm like the young women in the city , who , I'm told , if they buy a spool of Cotton , must have it sent home to them . 
Besides , thee mustn't over exert thy strength . 
Richard Hilton laughed merrily at the gravity with which she uttered the last sentence . 
Thee can't help being weakly inclined , and it's only right that thee should be careful of thyself . 
There's surely nothing in that that thee need be ashamed of . 
While thus speaking , Asenath moderated her walk , in order , unconsciously to her companion , to restrain his steps . 
How beautiful they are ! said he but I should never have taken them for violets . 
They are misnamed , she answered . 
The flower is an Erythronium but I am accustomed to the common name , and like it . 
Did thee ever study botany ? Not at all . 
I can tell a geranium , when I see it , and I know a heliotrope by the smell . 
I could never mistake a red cabbage for a rose , and I can recognize a hollyhock or a sunflower at a considerable distance . 
The wild flowers are all strangers to me I wish I knew something about them . 
If thee's fond of flowers , it would be very easy to learn . 
I think a study of this kind would pleasantly occupy thy mind . 
Why couldn't thee try ? I would be very willing to teach thee what little I know . 
It's not much , indeed , but all thee wants is a start . 
See , I will show thee how simple the principles are . 
His mind took hold of the subject with a prompt and profound interest . 
It was a new and wonderful world which suddenly opened before him . 
She was teacher , equal , friend and the simple candid manner which was the natural expression of her dignity and purity thoroughly harmonized with this relation . 
The social calm in which she had expanded had developed her nature as gently and securely as a sea flower is unfolded below the reach of tides and storms . 
She would have been very much surprised if any one had called her handsome yet her face had a mild , unobtrusive beauty which seemed to grow and deepen from day to day . 
Her brown hair , parted over a high white forehead , was smoothly laid across the temples , drawn behind the ears , and twisted into a simple knot . 
She might have gone around the world , repelling every rude word , every bold glance , by the protecting atmosphere of purity and truth which inclosed her . 
The days went by , each bringing some new blossom to adorn and illustrate the joint studies of the young man and maiden . 
Yet , though he had overtaken her in his knowledge of the technicalities of the science , her practical acquaintance with plants and their habits left her still his superior . 
Day by day , exploring the meadows , the woods , and the clearings , he brought home his discoveries to enjoy her aid in classifying and assigning them to their true places . 
The parents saw this community of interest and exploration without a thought of misgiving . 
They trusted their daughter as themselves or , if any possible fear had flitted across their hearts , it was allayed by the absorbing delight with which Richard Hilton pursued his study . 
But love , symbolized by a rose bud , is emphatically a botanical emotion . 
A sweet , tender perception of beauty , such as this study requires , or develops , is at once the most subtile and certain chain of communication between impressible natures . 
What sign ? he asked . 
That the summer is over . 
We shall soon have frosty nights , and then nothing will be left for us except the asters and gentians and golden rods . 
Was the time indeed so near ? A few more weeks , and this Arcadian life would close . 
He must go back to the city , to its rectilinear streets , its close brick walls , its artificial , constrained existence . 
I hope thee has not taken cold . 
Will thee go along , Richard ? I know where the rudbeckias grow , said Asenath , on the following Seventh day afternoon . 
They crossed the meadows , and followed the course of the stream , under its canopy of magnificent ash and plane trees , into a brake between the hills . 
It was an almost impenetrable thicket , spangled with tall autumnal flowers . 
The eupatoriums , with their purple crowns , stood like young trees , with an undergrowth of aster and blue spikes of lobelia , tangled in a golden mesh of dodder . 
A strong , mature odor , mixed alike of leaves and flowers , and very different from the faint , elusive sweetness of spring , filled the air . 
The creek , with a few faded leaves dropped upon its bosom , and films of gossamer streaming from its bushy fringe , gurgled over the pebbles in its bed . 
Here and there , on its banks , shone the deep yellow stars of the flower they sought . 
Richard Hilton walked as in a dream , mechanically plucking a stem of rudbeckia , only to toss it , presently , into the water . 
Why , Richard ! what's thee doing ? cried Asenath thee has thrown away the very best specimen . 
Let it go , he answered , sadly . 
I am afraid everything else is thrown away . 
What does thee mean ? she asked , with a look of surprised and anxious inquiry . 
Don't ask me , Asenath . 
Or yes , I WILL tell you . 
I must say it to you now , or never afterwards . 
But , Asenath , how am I to live without you ? But you can't understand that , because you do not know what you are to me . 
I meant to have kept this to myself . 
You never dreamed of it , and I had no right to disturb the peace of your heart . 
The truth is told now , and I cannot take it back , if I wished . 
But if you cannot love , you can forgive me for loving you forgive me now and every day of my life . 
He uttered these words with a passionate tenderness , standing on the edge of the stream , and gazing into its waters . 
His slight frame trembled with the violence of his emotion . 
Asenath , who had become very pale as he commenced to speak , gradually flushed over neck and brow as she listened . 
Her head drooped , the gathered flowers fell from her hands , and she hid her face . 
For a few minutes no sound was heard but the liquid gurgling of the water , and the whistle of a bird in the thicket beside them . 
Richard Hilton at last turned , and , in a voice of hesitating entreaty , pronounced her name Asenath ! She took away her hands , and slowly lifted her face . 
She was pale , but her eyes met his with a frank , appealing , tender expression , which caused his heart to stand still a moment . 
He knows that I do not need to forgive thee . 
If thee requires it , I also require His forgiveness for myself . 
Though a deeper blush now came to cheek and brow , she met his gaze with the bravery of a pure and innocent heart . 
Richard , stunned with the sudden and unexpected bliss , strove to take the full consciousness of it into a being which seemed too narrow to contain it . 
Asenath , said he , at last , I never dared to hope for this . 
No kiss was given , but side by side they walked slowly up the dewy meadows , in happy and hallowed silence . 
Asenath's face became troubled as the old farmhouse appeared through the trees . 
Father and mother must know of this , Richard , said she . 
I am afraid it may be a cross to them . 
The same fear had already visited his own mind , but he answered , cheerfully I hope not . 
I think I have taken a new lease of life , and shall soon be strong enough to satisfy them . 
Besides , my father is in prosperous business . 
It is not that , she answered but thee is not one of us . 
It was growing dusk when they reached the house . 
In the dim candle light Asenath's paleness was not remarked and Richard's silence was attributed to fatigue . 
After dinner , as Eli was taking a quiet walk in the garden , Richard Hilton approached him . 
Friend Mitchenor , said he , I should like to have some talk with thee . 
What is it , Richard ? asked the old man , breaking off some pods from a seedling radish , and rubbing them in the palm of his hand . 
Well , exclaimed Eli , turning around and looking up , sharply , does thee want a testimony from me ? I've nothing , that I know of , to say against thee . 
Can you confide Asenath's happiness to my care ? I love her with my whole heart and soul , and the fortune of my life depends on your answer . 
The straight lines in the old man's face seemed to grow deeper and more rigid , and his eyes shone with the chill glitter of steel . 
Richard , not daring to say a word more , awaited his reply in intense agitation . 
So ! he exclaimed at last , this is the way thee's repaid me ! I didn't expect THIS from thee ! Has thee spoken to her ? I have . 
Thee has , has thee ? And I suppose thee's persuaded her to think as thee does . 
Thee'd better never have come here . 
When I want to lose my daughter , and can't find anybody else for her , I'll let thee know . 
What have you against me , Friend Mitchenor ? Richard sadly asked , forgetting , in his excitement , the Quaker speech he had learned . 
Thee needn't use compliments now ! Asenath shall be a Friend while I live thy fine clothes and merry makings and vanities are not for her . 
Thee belongs to the world , and thee may choose one of the world's women . 
Never ! protested Richard but Friend Mitchenor was already ascending the garden steps on his way to the house . 
The young man , utterly overwhelmed , wandered to the nearest grove and threw himself on the ground . 
Thus , in a miserable chaos of emotion , unable to grasp any fixed thought , the hours passed away . 
Towards evening , he heard a footstep approaching , and sprang up . 
The latter was engaged , with the consent of his parents and expected to pass meeting in a few weeks . 
He knew what had happened , and felt a sincere sympathy for Richard , for whom he had a cordial regard . 
His face was very grave , but kind . 
Thee'd better come in , Richard , said he the evenings are damp , and I v'e brought thy overcoat . 
I know everything , and I feel that it must be a great cross for thee . 
But thee won't be alone in bearing it . 
Do you think there is no hope of your father relenting ? he asked , in a tone of despondency which anticipated the answer . 
Father's very hard to move , said Moses and when mother and Asenath can't prevail on him , nobody else need try . 
I'm afraid thee must make up thy mind to the trial . 
I'm sorry to say it , Richard , but I think thee'd better go back to town . 
I'll go to morrow , go and die ! he muttered hoarsely , as he followed Moses to the house . 
Abigail , as she saw his haggard face , wept quietly . 
She pressed his hand tenderly , but said nothing . 
Eli was stern and cold as an Iceland rock . 
Asenath did not make her appearance . 
At supper , the old man and his son exchanged a few words about the farm work to be done on the morrow , but nothing else was said . 
Richard soon left the room and went up to his chamber to spend his last , his only unhappy night at the farm . 
A yearning , pitying look from Abigail accompanied him . 
So , without a word of comfort from Asenath's lips , without even a last look at her beloved face , he was taken away . 
True and firm and self reliant as was the nature of Asenath Mitchenor , the thought of resistance to her father's will never crossed her mind . 
If that day came not , she would at the last give it back to God , saying , Father , here is Thy most precious gift , bestow it as Thou wilt . 
As her life had never before been agitated by any strong emotion , so it was not outwardly agitated now . 
The placid waters of her soul did not heave and toss before those winds of passion and sorrow they lay in dull , leaden calm , under a cold and sunless sky . 
What struggles with herself she underwent no one ever knew . 
After Richard Hilton's departure , she never mentioned his name , or referred , in any way , to the summer's companionship with him . 
She performed her household duties , if not cheerfully , at least as punctually and carefully as before and her father congratulated himself that the unfortunate attachment had struck no deeper root . 
Abigail's finer sight , however , was not deceived by this external resignation . 
It will not be long , he thought , before she is consoled . 
Fortune seemed to favor his plans , and justify his harsh treatment of Richard Hilton . 
There were unfavorable accounts of the young man's conduct . 
His father had died during the winter , and he was represented as having become very reckless and dissipated . 
These reports at last assumed such a definite form that Friend Mitchenor brought them to the notice of his family . 
I met Josiah Comly in the road , said he , one day at dinner . 
He's just come from Philadelphia , and brings bad news of Richard Hilton . 
He's taken to drink , and is spending in wickedness the money his father left him . 
His friends have a great concern about him , but it seems he's not to be reclaimed . 
Abigail looked imploringly at her husband , but he either disregarded or failed to understand her look . 
It shall be as thee wishes , Asenath , he said we had best forget him . 
Of their friends , however , she could not expect this reserve , and she was doomed to hear stories of Richard which clouded and embittered her thoughts of him . 
And a still severer trial was in store . 
She accompanied her father , in obedience to his wish , and against her own desire , to the Yearly Meeting in Philadelphia . 
It has passed into a proverb that the Friends , on these occasions , always bring rain with them and the period of her visit was no exception to the rule . 
As she and her father joined each other , outside the meeting house , at the close of the afternoon meeting , a light rain was falling . 
She took his arm , under the capacious umbrella , and they were soon alone in the wet streets , on their way to the house of the Friends who entertained them . 
At a crossing , where the water pouring down the gutter towards the Delaware , caused them to halt a man , plashing through the flood , staggered towards them . 
Friend Mitchenor drew to one side , lest his spotless drab should be brushed by the unclean reveller but the latter , looking up , stopped suddenly face to face with them . 
Asenath ! he cried , in a voice whose anguish pierced through the confusion of his senses , and struck down into the sober quick of his soul . 
Richard ! she breathed , rather than spoke , in a low , terrified voice . 
It was indeed Richard Hilton who stood before her , or rather as she afterwards thought , in recalling the interview the body of Richard Hilton possessed by an evil spirit . 
Here I am , Asenath , he said at length , hoarsely . 
This is THY doing , Friend Eli , he continued , turning to the old man , with a sneering emphasis on the THY . 
I hope thee's satisfied with thy work ! Here he burst into a bitter , mocking laugh , which it chilled Asenath's blood to hear . 
The old man turned pale . 
Come away , child ! said he , tugging at her arm . 
But she stood firm , strengthened for the moment by a solemn feeling of duty which trampled down her pain . 
A stranger , coming down the street , paused out of curiosity . 
Come , come ! cried Eli , once more , eager to escape from the scene . 
His daughter stood still , and the man slowly passed on . 
Asenath could not thus leave her lost lover , in his despairing grief . 
She again turned to him , her own tears flowing fast and free . 
I do not judge thee , Richard , but the words that passed between us give me a right to speak to thee . 
It was hard to lose sight of thee then , but it is still harder for me to see thee now . 
If the sorrow and pity I feel could save thee , I would be willing never to know any other feelings . 
I would still do anything for thee except that which thee cannot ask , as thee now is , and I could not give . 
Thee has made the gulf between us so wide that it cannot be crossed . 
But I can now weep for thee and pray for thee as a fellow creature whose soul is still precious in the sight of the Lord . 
Fare thee well ! He seized the hand she extended , bowed down , and showered mingled tears and kisses upon it . 
Then , with a wild sob in his throat , he started up and rushed down the street , through the fast falling rain . 
The father and daughter walked home in silence . 
Eli had heard every word that was spoken , and felt that a spirit whose utterances he dared not question had visited Asenath's tongue . 
She , as year after year went by , regained the peace and patience which give a sober cheerfulness to life . 
V. Year after year passed by , but not without bringing change to the Mitchenor family . 
Moses had moved to Chester County soon after his marriage , and had a good farm of his own . 
He missed her more keenly in the places where she had lived and moved than in a neighborhood without the memory of her presence . 
The pang with which he parted from his home was weakened by the greater pang which had preceded it . 
It was a harder trial to Asenath . 
She shrank from the encounter with new faces , and the necessity of creating new associations . 
Here still lingered the halo of the sweet departed summer , here still grew the familiar wild flowers which THE FIRST Richard Hilton had gathered . 
This was the Paradise in which the Adam of her heart had dwelt , before his fall . 
Her resignation and submission entitled her to keep those pure and perfect memories , though she was scarcely conscious of their true charm . 
She did not dare to express to herself , in words , that one everlasting joy of woman's heart , through all trials and sorrows I have loved , I have been beloved . 
On the last First day before their departure , she walked down the meadows to the lonely brake between the hills . 
It was the early spring , and the black buds of the ash had just begun to swell . 
The maples were dusted with crimson bloom , and the downy catkins of the swamp willow dropped upon the stream and floated past her , as once the autumn leaves . 
In the edges of the thickets peeped forth the blue , scentless violet , the fairy cups of the anemone , and the pink veined bells of the miskodeed . 
As she stooped to pluck it , her own face looked up at her out of a little pool filled by the spring rains . 
Farewell ! she whispered , taking leave at once , as she believed , of youth and the memory of love . 
During those years she had more than once been sought in marriage , but had steadily , though kindly , refused . 
Once , when the suitor was a man whose character and position made the union very desirable in Eli Mitchenor's eyes , he ventured to use his paternal influence . 
Asenath's gentle resistance was overborne by his arbitrary force of will , and her protestations were of no avail . 
Father , she finally said , in the tone which he had once heard and still remembered , thee can take away , but thee cannot give . 
He never mentioned the subject again . 
Richard Hilton passed out of her knowledge shortly after her meeting with him in Philadelphia . 
After that , all reports ceased . 
He was either dead , or reclaimed and leading a better life , somewhere far away . 
In any case , her own future was plain and clear . 
He at once took his place on the upper seat , among the elders , most of whom he knew already , from having met them , year after year , in Philadelphia . 
He was done with the earnest business of life . 
Moses was gradually taking his place , as father and Friend and Asenath would be reasonably provided for at his death . 
Thus , at seventy five he was really younger , because tenderer of heart and more considerate , than he had been at sixty . 
Asenath was now a woman of thirty five , and suitors had ceased to approach her . 
Much of her beauty still remained , but her face had become thin and wasted , and the inevitable lines were beginning to form around her eyes . 
Her dress was plainer than ever , and she wore the scoop bonnet of drab silk , in which no woman can seem beautiful , unless she be very old . 
To the children of Moses she was a good genius , and a word from Aunt 'Senath oftentimes prevailed when the authority of the parents was disregarded . 
It was summer , and Quarterly Meeting Day had arrived . 
It was a sparkling , breezy day , and the forest was full of life . 
Squirrels chased each other along the branches of the oaks , and the air was filled with fragrant odors of hickory leaves , sweet fern , and spice wood . 
Picking up a flower here and there , Asenath walked onward , rejoicing alike in shade and sunshine , grateful for all the consoling beauty which the earth offers to a lonely heart . 
That serene content which she had learned to call happiness had filled her being until the dark canopy was lifted and the waters took back their transparency under a cloudless sky . 
Passing around to the women's side of the meeting house , she mingled with her friends , who were exchanging information concerning the expected visitors . 
Micajah Morrill had not arrived , they said , but Ruth Baxter had spent the last night at Friend Way's , and would certainly be there . 
Besides , there were Friend Chandler , from Nine Partners , and Friend Carter , from Maryland they had been seen on the ground . 
Friend Carter was said to have a wonderful gift , Mercy Jackson had heard him once , in Baltimore . 
Friend Chandler had visited Yearly Meeting once , they believed . 
He was an old man , and had been a personal friend of Elias Hicks . 
At the appointed hour they entered the house . 
Friend Chandler spoke first , and was followed by Ruth Baxter , a frail little woman , with a voice of exceeding power . 
The not unmelodious chant in which she delivered her admonitions rang out , at times , like the peal of a trumpet . 
She resembled an inspired prophetess , an aged Deborah , crying aloud in the valleys of Israel . 
The last speaker was Friend Carter , a small man , not more than forty years of age . 
His face was thin and intense in its expression , his hair gray at the temples , and his dark eye almost too restless for a child of the stillness and the quietness . 
His discourse was an eloquent vindication of the law of kindness , as the highest and purest manifestation of true Christian doctrine . 
The paternal relation of God to man was the basis of that religion which appealed directly to the heart so the fraternity of each man with his fellow was its practical application . 
God pardons the repentant sinner we can also pardon , where we are offended we can pity , where we cannot pardon . 
Both the good and the bad principles generate their like in others . 
Force begets force anger excites a corresponding anger but kindness awakens the slumbering emotions even of an evil heart . 
Love may not always be answered by an equal love , but it has never yet created hatred . 
The words of the speaker sank deeply into the hearts of his hearers . 
There was an intense hush , as if in truth the Spirit had moved him to speak , and every sentence was armed with a sacred authority . 
Asenath Mitchenor looked at him , over the low partition which divided her and her sisters from the men's side , absorbed in his rapt earnestness and truth . 
She forgot that other hearers were present he spake to her alone . 
A strange spell seemed to seize upon her faculties and chain them at his feet had he beckoned to her , she would have arisen and walked to his side . 
Friend Carter warmed and deepened as he went on . 
Asenath almost ceased to breathe , in the intensity with which she gazed and listened . 
Her senses faded , and she would have fallen from her seat but for the support of the partition against which she leaned . 
Fortunately , the women near her were too much occupied with the narrative to notice her condition . 
Many of them wept silently , with their handkerchiefs pressed over their mouths . 
The first shock of death like faintness passed away , and she clung to the speaker's voice , as if its sound alone could give her strength to sit still and listen further . 
Deserted by his friends , unable to stay his feet on the evil path , he continued , the young man left his home and went to a city in another State . 
But here it was easier to find associates in evil than tender hearts that might help him back to good . 
He was tired of life , and the hope of a speedier death hardened him in his courses . 
But , my friends , Death never comes to those who wickedly seek him . 
The Lord withholds destruction from the hands that are madly outstretched to grasp it , and forces His pity and forgiveness on the unwilling soul . 
Finding that it was the principle of LIFE which grew stronger within him , the young man at last meditated an awful crime . 
The thought of self destruction haunted him day and night . 
He lingered around the wharves , gazing into the deep waters , and was restrained from the deed only by the memory of the last loving voice he had heard . 
One gloomy evening , when even this memory had faded , and he awaited the approaching darkness to make his design secure , a hand was laid on his arm . 
A man in the simple garb of the Friends stood beside him , and a face which reflected the kindness of the Divine Father looked upon him . 
My child , said he , I am drawn to thee by the great trouble of thy mind . 
Shall I tell thee what it is thee meditates ? The young man shook his head . 
I will be silent , then , but I will save thee . 
I know the human heart , and its trials and weaknesses , and it may be put into my mouth to give thee strength . 
He took the young man's hand , as if he had been a little child , and led him to his home . 
They knelt down , side by side , at midnight and the Friend's right hand was upon his head while they prayed . 
The young man was rescued from his evil ways , to acknowledge still further the boundless mercy of Providence . 
The dissipation wherein he had recklessly sought death was , for him , a marvellous restoration to life . 
His lungs had become sound and free from the tendency to disease . 
The measure of his forgiveness was almost more than he could bear . 
I have been powerfully moved to tell you this story . 
Friend Carter concluded , from a feeling that it may be needed , here , at this time , to influence some heart trembling in the balance . 
Tears of emotion stood in the eyes of the hearers , men as well as women , and tears of gratitude and thanksgiving gushed warmly from those of Asenath . 
An ineffable peace and joy descended upon her heart . 
It seems like a face I ought to know , he said , but I can't place thee . 
They withdrew to the shade of one of the poplars . 
Friend Carter turned again , much moved , and , grasping the old man's hands in his own , exclaimed Friend Mitchenor , I was called upon to day to speak of myself . 
I am or , rather , I WAS the Richard Hilton whom thee knew . 
Friend Mitchenor's face flushed with mingled emotions of shame and joy , and his grasp on the preacher's hands tightened . 
But thee calls thyself Carter ? he finally said . 
Soon after I was saved , was the reply , an aunt on the mother's side died , and left her property to me , on condition that I should take her name . 
I was tired of my own then , and to give it up seemed only like losing my former self but I should like to have it back again now . 
Wonderful are the ways of the Lord , and past finding out ! said the old man . 
Come home with me , Richard , come for my sake , for there is a concern on my mind until all is clear between us . 
Or , stay , will thee walk home with Asenath , while I go with Moses ? Asenath ? Yes . 
There she goes , through the gate . 
Thee can easily overtake her . 
I 'm coming , Moses ! and he hurried away to his son's carriage , which was approaching . 
Asenath felt that it would be impossible for her to meet Richard Hilton there . 
Eager to escape from the crowd , she crossed the highway , dusty with its string of returning carriages , and entered the secluded lane . 
The breeze had died away , the air was full of insect sounds , and the warm light of the sinking sun fell upon the woods and meadows . 
Nature seemed penetrated with a sympathy with her own inner peace . 
But the crown of the benignant day was yet to come . 
A quick footstep followed her , and ere long a voice , near at hand , called her by name . 
She stopped , turned , and for a moment they stood silent , face to face . 
I knew thee , Richard ! at last she said , in a trembling voice may the Lord bless thee ! Tears were in the eyes of both . 
He has blessed me , Richard answered , in a reverent tone and this is His last and sweetest mercy . 
Asenath , let me hear that thee forgives me . 
I have forgiven thee long ago , Richard forgiven , but not forgotten . 
The hush of sunset was on the forest , as they walked onward , side by side , exchanging their mutual histories . 
Not a leaf stirred in the crowns of the tall trees , and the dusk , creeping along between their stems , brought with it a richer woodland odor . 
Their voices were low and subdued , as if an angel of God were hovering in the shadows , and listening , or God Himself looked down upon them from the violet sky . 
If I were to say to thee now what I said to thee there , what would be thy answer ? Her words came brokenly . 
I would say to thee , Richard , I can trust thee , I DO love thee ! Look at me , Asenath . 
Her eyes , beaming with a clearer light than even then when she first confessed , were lifted to his . 
She placed her hands gently upon his shoulders , and bent her head upon his breast . 
He tenderly lifted it again , and , for the first time , her virgin lips knew the kiss of man . 
I. It was a day of unusual excitement at the Rambo farm house . 
On the farm , it is true , all things were in their accustomed order , and all growths did their accustomed credit to the season . 
The fences were in good repair the cattle were healthy and gave promise of the normal increase , and the young corn was neither strangled with weeds nor assassinated by cut worms . 
Old John Rambo was gradually allowing his son , Henry , to manage in his stead , and the latter shrewdly permitted his father to believe that he exercised the ancient authority . 
In the house , also , Mrs. Priscilla Rambo was not severely haunted by the spectre of any neglected duty . 
The simple regular routine of the household could not be changed under her charge each thing had its appropriate order of performance , must be done , and WAS done . 
It was Miss Betty Rambo , whose pulse beat some ten strokes faster than its wont , as she sat down with the rest to their early country dinner . 
Whether her brother Henry's participated in the accelerated movement could not be guessed from his demeanor . 
There's a fresh drove of Maryland cattle just come . 
Oh Harry ! cried Betty , in real distress . 
I know , he answered but as Miss Bartram is going to stay two weeks , she'll keep . 
She's not like a drove , that's here one day , and away the next . 
Besides , it is precious little good I shall have of her society , until you two have used up all your secrets and small talk . 
I know how it is with girls . 
Leonard will drive over to meet the train . 
Won't I do on a pinch ? Leonard asked . 
Oh , to be sure , said Betty , a little embarrassed , only Alice Miss Bartram might expect Harry , because her brother came for me when I went up . 
If that's all , make yourself easy , Bet , Henry answered , as he rose from the table . 
There's a mighty difference between here and there . 
Two or three years before , she and Miss Alice Bartram , daughter of the distinguished lawyer in the city , had been room mates at the Nereid Seminary for Young Ladies . 
The winter before , Betty had been invited to visit her friend in the city , and had passed a very excited and delightful week in the stately Bartram mansion . 
Thus her little awkwardnesses became originalities , and she was almost popular in the lofty circle when she withdrew from it . 
It was therefore , perhaps , slightly inconsistent in Betty , that she was not quite sure how Miss Bartram would accept the reverse side of this social experience . 
She imagined it easier to look down and make allowances , as a host , than as a guest she could not understand that the charm of the change might be fully equal . 
It was lovely weather , as they drove up the sweet , ever changing curves of the Brandywine valley . 
The woods fairly laughed in the clear sunlight , and the soft , incessant , shifting breezes . 
When they reached the station they walked up and down the long platform together , until the train from the city thundered up , and painfully restrained its speed . 
It was not her beauty that made Leonard's heart suddenly stop beating for she was not considered a beauty , in society . 
Her features were not faultlessly regular , but they were informed with the finer harmonies of her character . 
She was a woman , at whose feet a noble man might kneel , lay his forehead on her knee , confess his sins , and be pardoned . 
She stepped down to the platform , and Betty's arms were about her . 
She has talked to me so much of her brother Harry , that I quite know you already . 
Leonard could neither withdraw his eyes nor his hand . 
A faint color came into Miss Bartram's cheeks , as they stood thus , for a moment , face to face . 
She seemed to be waiting for him to speak , but of this he never thought had any words come to his mind , his tongue could not have uttered them . 
It is not Harry , Betty explained , striving to hide her embarrassment . 
This is Leonard Clare , who lives with us . 
Then I do not know you so well as I thought , Miss Bartram said to him it is the beginning of a new acquaintance , after all . 
But she did , instinctively , what was really best she gave Leonard the check for her trunk , divided her satchels with Betty , and walked to the carriage . 
He did not sing , as he drove homewards down the valley . 
Seated on the trunk , in front , he quietly governed the horses , while the two girls , on the seat behind him , talked constantly and gaily . 
Only the rich , steady tones of Miss Bartram's voice WOULD make their way into his ears , and every light , careless sentence printed itself upon his memory . 
They came to him as if from some inaccessible planet . 
Poor fellow ! he was not the first to feel the desire of the moth for the star . 
When they reached the Rambo farm house , it was necessary that he should give his hand to help her down from the clumsy carriage . 
Thank you , Mr. Clare ! said Miss Bartram , and passed into the house . 
It was strange how frequently the strong , not very graceful figure of Leonard Clare marched through these reveries . 
One evening she met him in the lane , as she returned from the meadow . 
She carried a bunch of flowers , with delicate blue and lilac bells , and asked him the name . 
Them's Brandywine cowslips , he answered I never heard no other name . 
May I correct you ? she said , gently , and with a smile which she meant to be playful . 
I suppose the main thing is to speak one's thought , but there are neat and orderly ways , and there are careless ways . 
Thereupon she pointed out the inaccuracies of his answer , he standing beside her , silent and attentive . 
When she ceased , he did not immediately reply . 
You will take it in good part , will you not ? she continued . 
I hope I have not offended you . 
No ! he exclaimed , firmly , lifting his head , and looking at her . 
The inscrutable expression in his dark gray eyes was stronger than before , and all his features were more clearly drawn . 
He was not positively handsome , but from head to foot he expressed a fresh , sound quality of manhood . 
So musing , she walked on to the farm house . 
Leonard had picked up one of the blossoms she had let fall , and appeared to be curiously examining it . 
Once again , the day before she left the Rambo farmhouse to return to the city , she came upon him , alone . 
She had wandered off to the Brandywine , to gather ferns at a rocky point where some choice varieties were to be found . 
Without saying a word , he took off his shoes , and commenced climbing the nearly perpendicular face of the cliff . 
When he descended with the ferns in his hand , she said It was a great risk I wish I had not wanted them . 
It was no risk for me , he answered . 
What can I send you in return ? she asked , as they walked forwards . 
I am going home to morrow . 
Betty told me , Leonard said please , wait one minute . 
He stepped down to the bank of the stream , washed his hands carefully in the clear water , and came back to her , holding them , dripping , at his sides . 
I am very ignorant , he then continued , ignorant and rough . 
You are good , to want to send me something , but I want nothing . 
Miss Bartram , you are very good . 
He paused but with all her tact and social experience , she did not know what to say . 
Might I might I now , there'll be no chance tomorrow , shake hands with you ? The words seemed to be forced from him by the strength of a fierce will . 
It's quite dry , you see , said he , offering his hand . 
Her own sank upon it , palm to palm , and the fingers softly closed over each , as if with the passion and sweetness of a kiss . 
Miss Bartram's heart came to her eyes , and read , at last , the question in Leonard's . 
It was I as man , and you , as woman , are equals will you give me time to reach you ? What her eyes replied she knew not . 
A mighty influence drew her on , and a mighty doubt and dread restrained her . 
Think , yes , DARE to think of all the prosaic realities of life , shared with him ! Miss Bartram felt herself growing dizzy . 
But , for one endless second , the sweeter voice spoke through their clasped hands . 
Perhaps he kissed hers she did not know she only heard herself murmur Good bye ! Pray go on I will rest here . 
She sat down upon a bank by the roadside , turned away her head , and closed her eyes . 
It was long before the tumult in her nature subsided . 
If she reflected , with a sense of relief , nothing was said , the thought immediately followed , but all is known . 
Out of this struggle dawned self knowledge , and the strength which is born of it . 
When she returned to the house , she was pale and weary , but capable of responding to Betty Rambo's constant cheerfulness . 
The next day she left for the city , without having seen Leonard Clare again . 
Henry Rambo married , and brought a new mistress to the farm house . 
Betty married , and migrated to a new home in another part of the State . 
Leonard Clare went back to his trade , and returned no more in harvest time . 
So the pleasant farm by the Brandywine , having served its purpose as a background , will be seen no more in this history . 
Miss Bartram's inmost life , as a woman , was no longer the same . 
The point of view from which she had beheld the world was shifted , and she was obliged to remodel all her feelings and ideas to conform to it . 
But the process was gradual , and no one stood near enough to her to remark it . 
She had various suitors for that sense of grace and repose and sweet feminine power , which hung around her like an atmosphere , attracted good and true men towards her . 
By this time , Leonard Clare had become almost a dream to her . 
She had neither seen him nor heard of him since he let go her hand on that memorable evening beside the stream . 
He was a strange , bewildering chance , a cypher concealing a secret which she could not intelligently read . 
, or long since forgotten , if felt , by him ? The man whom she most esteemed came back to her . 
She knew the ripeness and harmony of his intellect , the nobility of his character , and the generosity of a feeling which would be satisfied with only a partial return . 
She felt sure , also , that she should never possess a sentiment nearer to love than that which pleaded his cause in her heart . 
But her hand lay quiet in his , her pulses were calm when he spoke , and his face , manly and true as it was , never invaded her dreams . 
All questioning was vain her heart gave no solution of the riddle . 
Perhaps her own want was common to all lives then she was cherishing a selfish ideal , and rejecting the positive good offered to her hands . 
After long hesitation she yielded . 
The predictions of society came to naught instead of becoming an eccentric spinster , Miss Bartram was announced to be the affianced bride of Mr. Lawrie . 
They were married by an aged clergyman , a relative of the bridegroom . 
The pews were crowded with elegant guests , the altar was decorated with flowers , and the ceremony lacked nothing of its usual solemn beauty . 
Just as they passed out the door , and the bridal carriage was summoned , a singular thing happened . 
Another bridal carriage drew up from the opposite side , and a newly wedded pair came forth from the portal of the Methodist church . 
Both parties stopped , face to face , divided only by the narrow street . 
Mrs. Lawrie first noticed the flushed cheeks of the other bride , her white dress , rather showy than elegant , and the heavy gold ornaments she wore . 
Then she turned to the bridegroom . 
She saw his face , and instantly all other faces disappeared . 
From the opposite brink of a tremendous gulf she looked into his eyes , and their blended ray of love and despair pierced her to the heart . 
She's paying for her mock composure , after all , said the matrons . 
It must have been a great effort . 
Ten years afterwards , Mrs. Lawrie went on board a steamer at Southampton , bound for New York . 
She was travelling alone , having been called suddenly from Europe by the approaching death of her aged father . 
There were few cabin passengers on board , but the usual crowd of emigrants in the steerage . 
Mrs. Lawrie's face had grown calmer and colder during these years . 
Perhaps , indeed , her manner was older than her face and form she still attracted the interest of men , but with a certain doubt and reserve . 
The captain presently joined her , and the gentlemen saw that she was bright and perfectly self possessed in conversation some of them immediately resolved to achieve an acquaintance . 
The dull , passive existence of the beginning of every voyage , seemed to be now at an end . 
It was time for the little society of the vessel to awake , stir itself , and organize a life of its own , for the few remaining days . 
That night , as Mrs. Lawrie was sleeping in her berth , she suddenly awoke with a singular feeling of dread and suspense . 
Wait here ! said a voice , and her protector plunged into the crowd . 
She saw , instantly , the terrible fate which had fallen upon the vessel . 
She was leaning against the mizen shrouds , between the coils of rope . 
Nobody appeared to notice her , although the quarter deck was fast filling with persons driven back by the fire , yet still shrinking from the terror and uncertainty of the sea . 
She thought It is but death why should I fear ? The waves are at hand , to save me from all suffering . 
Two boats are off , and two capsized in ten minutes more every soul must take to the water . 
Trust to me , and I will save you or die with you ! What else can I do ? she answered . 
The minute this goes , he then said to her , you go after it , and I follow . 
Keep still when you rise to the surface . 
She left the shrouds , took hold of the planks at his side , and they heaved the rude raft into the sea . 
In another moment there was one at her side . 
Lay your hand on my shoulder , he said and when she did so , swam for the raft , which they soon reached . 
The ship drifted further and further , casting a faint , though awful , glare over the sea , until the light was suddenly extinguished , as the hull sank . 
The dawn was in the sky by this time , and as it broadened they could see faint specks here and there , where others , like themselves , clung to drifting spars . 
Mrs. Lawrie shuddered with cold and the reaction from an excitement which had been far more powerful than she knew at the time . 
She sat , leaning against his shoulder , though partly turned away from him all she could say was you are very good . 
After awhile he spoke , and his voice seemed changed to her ears . 
You must be thinking of Mr. Lawrie . 
It will , indeed , be terrible for him to hear of the disaster , before knowing that you are saved . 
God has spared him that distress , she answered . 
Mr. Lawrie died , a year ago . 
She felt a start in the strong frame upon which she leaned . 
Will you put your hand in mine ? She stretched hers eagerly and gratefully towards him . 
She turned around all a tremble , and saw his face in the glow of the coming day . 
Leonard Clare ! she cried . 
Then you have not forgotten me ? Could one forget , when the other remembers ? The words came involuntarily from her lips . 
She felt what they implied , the moment afterwards , and said no more . 
But he kept her hand in his . 
At first you seemed too far but you yourself led me the first step of the way , and I have steadily kept my eyes on you , and followed it . 
When I had learned my trade , I came to the city . 
No labor was too hard for me , no study too difficult . 
I was becoming a new man , I saw all that was still lacking , and how to reach it , and I watched you , unknown , at a distance . 
Then I heard of your engagement you were lost , and something of which I had begun to dream , became insanity . 
I determined to trample it out of my life . 
The daughter of the master builder , whose first assistant I was , had always favored me in her society and I soon persuaded her to love me . 
Her hand still lay in his , and her head rested on his shoulder . 
Every word he spoke sank into her heart with a solemn sweetness , in which her whole nature was silent and satisfied . 
Why should she speak ? He knew all . 
Yes , it seemed that he knew . 
His arm stole around her , and her head was drawn from his shoulder to the warm breadth of his breast . 
Something hard pressed her cheek , and she lifted her hand to move it aside . 
Was it the miniature of his dead wife ? He opened the case , and showed her , under the glass , a faded , pressed flower . 
What is it ? she asked . 
The Brandywine cowslip you dropped , when you spoke to me in the lane . 
Then it was that you showed me the first step of the way . 
She laid her head again upon his bosom . 
Hour after hour they sat , and the light swells of the sea heaved them aimlessly to and fro , and the sun burned them , and the spray drenched their limbs . 
At last Leonard Clare roused himself and looked around he felt numb and faint , and he saw , also , that her strength was rapidly failing . 
We cannot live much longer , I fear , he said , clasping her closely in his arms . 
Kiss me once , darling , and then we will die . 
She clung to him and kissed him . 
There is life , not death , in your lips ! he cried . 
Oh , God , if we should live ! He rose painfully to his feet , stood , tottering ? on the raft , and looked across the waves . 
Presently he began to tremble , then to sob like a child , and at last spoke , through his tears A sail ! a sail ! and heading towards us ! MRS . 
my name will not be that of a stranger . 
Let me throw aside all affectation of humility , and say that I hope it is already and not unfavorably familiar to you . 
A few years ago I should not have meekly submitted to treatment like this but late experiences have taught me the vanity of many womanly dreams . 
in creating that public sentiment in our favor which invested us with all the civil and political rights of men . 
I will only say and it is a hint which SOME PERSONS will understand that there are other forms of jealousy than those which spring from love . 
It is , indeed , incredible that so little is known , outside the State of Atlantic , of the experiment I mean the achievement of the last eight years . 
, it is time that somebody should speak . 
Of all the band of female iconoclasts , as the Hon . 
suggests that I must be brief , if I wish my words to reach the ears of the millions for whom they are designed and I shall do my best to be so . 
I must first tell you how it was that we succeeded in forcing the men to accept our claims , so much in advance of other States . 
We were indebted for it chiefly to the skill and adroitness of Selina Whiston . 
at Gaston , while the Legislature was in session , was always very brilliant and successful . 
So the people were not entirely unprepared . 
Although our State had gone for Fremont in , by a small majority , the Democrats afterwards elected their Governor and both parties , therefore , had hopes of success in . 
The canvass began early , and was very animated . 
Now , it happened that our Congressional District was one of the closest . 
was rather favorably inclined to the woman's cause . 
This meeting took place on a magnificent day , just after the oats harvest and everybody , for twenty miles around , was there . 
The rest of us magnanimously decided to take no part in the concerted plan , though very eager to do so . 
Selina Whiston declared that she must have the field to herself and when she said that , we knew she meant it . 
It was generally known that she was on the ground . 
In fact , she spent most of the time while Messrs . 
splitting the wedge of people on the steps leading to the platform . 
I noticed that the two Congressional candidates looked at each other and smiled , in spite of the venomous charges they had just been making . 
, she turned squarely around to the two candidates arid said Now to the practical application . 
You , Mr. Wrangle , and you , Mr. Tumbrill , want to be elected to Congress . 
and there isn't a difference of a hundred in your estimates . 
A very little will turn the scale either way . 
Perhaps a woman's influence perhaps my voice might do it . 
But I will give you an equal chance . 
Either of you would give a great deal to have a majority of the intelligent women of the District on your side it would already be equivalent to success . 
I stand here , she continued , in the interest of my struggling sisters , and with authority to act for them . 
I pause for a reply . 
Shall they not answer me ? she continued , turning to the audience . 
Then Mr. Tumbrill looked at Mr. Wrangle , and made a motion that HE should speak . 
The people saw all this , and laughed and shouted as if they would never finish . 
, saw that boldness would just then be popular so he stepped forward . 
Let me be more explicit , he continued . 
Somehow Mr. Wrangle's acceptance of the bid did not inspire me , although it promised so much . 
I had anticipated opposition , dissatisfaction , tumult . 
So had Mrs. Whiston , and I could see , and the crowd could see , that she was not greatly elated . 
Mr. Wrangle made a very significant bow to Mr. Tumbrill , and then sat down . 
The mechanical echo in public thus developed into an opinion in private . 
My own political experience has since demonstrated to me that this is a phenomenon very common among men . 
The impulse generated at that meeting gradually spread all over the State . 
, and Mr. Wrangle was elected to Congress , having received a hundred and forty two more votes than his opponent . 
Mr. Tumbrill has always attributed his defeat to his want of courage in not taking up at once the glove which Selina Whiston threw down . 
I think I have said enough to make it clear how the State of Atlantic came to be the first to grant equal civil and political rights to women . 
This would give a majority of twenty eight in the House , and ten in the Senate . 
Should the bill pass , there was still a possibility that it might be vetoed by the Governor , of whom we did not feel sure . 
Olympia Knapp , who , you know , is so very beautiful , presided at these entertainments . 
She put forth all her splendid powers , and with more effect than any of us suspected . 
On the day before the bill reached its third reading , the Governor made her an offer of marriage . 
, and asking their advice . 
We discussed the question for four hours , and finally decided that the interests of the cause would oblige her to accept the Governor's hand . 
Oh , I am so glad ! cried Olympia , for I accepted him at once . 
We owed this idea , like the first , to the immortal Selina Whiston . 
A lucky accident as momentous in its way as the fall of an apple to Newton , or the flying of a kite to Dr . 
Franklin gave her the secret principle by which the politics of men are directed . 
He was known as a wirepuller , and the other wire pullers of his party used to meet in his office and discuss matters . 
Mrs. Whiston always asserted that there was a mouse hole through the partition but she had energy enough to have made a hole herself , for the sake of the cause . 
She never would tell us all she overheard . 
It is enough , she would say , that I know how the thing is done . 
I remember that we were all considerably startled when she first gave us an outline of her plan . 
, when the matter seemed nigh hopeless to all of us . 
The history of and the following winter proves that in her the world has lost a stateswoman . 
Mr. Wrangle and Governor Battle have both said to me that they never knew a measure to be so splendidly engineered both before the public and in the State Legislature . 
It would be nearly a year to the next State election , and none of the women seemed to care for the local and municipal elections in the spring . 
In fact , we always have suspected that he wrote it . 
The word male was simply omitted from all laws . 
more powerful excitements followed one upon the other . 
Even our jubilee was thinly attended , and all but two of the members on whom we relied for speeches failed us . 
Governor Battle , who was to have presided , was at Washington , and Olympia , already his wife , accompanied him . 
Speaking for myself , as a good Union woman , I felt that I must lay aside , for a time , the interests of my sex . 
we began to take courage , and to feel , that if our new civil position brought us no very tangible enjoyment , at least it imposed upon us no very irksome duties . 
The first practical effect of the new law came to light at the August term of our County Court . 
The names of seven women appeared on the list of jurors , but only three of them answered to their names . 
She told me that no one would ever know what she endured during those three days but the morals of our county have been better ever since . 
Mr. Spelter told me that his State exchanges showed that there had been difficulties of the same kind in all the other counties . 
The nominating Conventions were held in August , also , and we were therefore called upon to move at once , in order to secure our fair share . 
Never in my life did I have such a task , as in drumming up a few women to attend the primary township meeting for the election of delegates . 
It was impossible to make them comprehend its importance . 
There were just nine of us , all told , to about a hundred men . 
I won't deny that our situation that night , at the Wrangle House , was awkward and not entirely agreeable . 
I don't think we should have accomplished much , but for a 'cute idea of Mrs. Wilbur , the tinman's wife . 
She went to the leaders , and threatened them that the women's vote should be cast in a body for the Democratic candidates , unless we were considered in making up the ticket . 
THAT helped the delegates were properly instructed , and the County Convention afterward nominated two men and one woman as candidates for the Assembly . 
That woman was as I need hardly say , for the world knows it myself . 
I had not solicited the honor , and therefore could not refuse , especially as my daughter Melissa was then old enough to keep house in my absence . 
No woman had applied for the nomination for Sheriff , but there were seventeen schoolmistresses anxious for the office of County Treasurer . 
of the Poor , which was conferred on Mrs. Bassett , wife of a clergyman . 
But , as I said , I did my best , with the help of Webster's Dictionary although the further I went the less I liked it . 
As election day drew nearer , our prospects looked brighter . 
This was exactly what Mrs. Whiston had foretold . 
We estimated that taking the County tickets all over the State we had about one twentieth of the Republican , and one fiftieth of the Democratic , nominations . 
This was far from being our due , but still it was a good beginning . 
My husband insisted that I should go very early to the polls . 
I could scarcely restrain a tear of emotion as I gave my first ballot into the hands of the judges . 
There were not a dozen persons present , and the act did not produce the sensation which I expected . 
One man cried out Three cheers for our Assemblywoman ! and they gave them and I thereupon returned home in the best spirits . 
I devoted the rest of the day to relieving poorer women , who could not have spared the time to vote , if I had not , meanwhile , looked after their children . 
The last was Nancy Black , the shoemaker's wife in our street , who kept me waiting upon her till it was quite dark . 
The first time since we were married , Mrs. Strongitharm ! she cried . 
Then she whispered to me , as I was leaving And I've killed HIS vote , anyhow ! When the count was made , our party was far ahead . 
Although only ten per cent . 
It was amazing what an effect followed this result . 
The whole country would have rung with it , had we not been in the midst of war . 
Mr. Wrangle declared that he had always been an earnest advocate of the women's cause . 
The leaders themselves said nothing , and in a few weeks the rank and file recovered their cheerfulness . 
Even Mrs. Whiston , with all her experience , was a little puzzled by this change of mood . 
Alas ! she was far from guessing the correct explanation . 
It was a great comfort to me that Mrs. Whiston was also elected to the Legislature . 
, and could not leave so I was obliged to go up to Gaston all alone , when the session commenced . 
There were but four of us Assemblywomen , and although the men treated us with great courtesy , I was that nervous that I seemed to detect either commiseration or satire everywhere . 
I then began to comprehend the grandeur of the Legislator's office . 
My voice could assist in making possible these magnificent improvements , and I promised it to all . 
Nothing ever annoyed her so much as a little blunder she made , the week after the opening of the session . 
I have not yet mentioned that there was already a universal dissatisfaction among the women , on account of their being liable to military service . 
The war seemed to have hardly begun , as yet , and conscription was already talked about the women , therefore , clamored for an exemption on account of sex . 
Although we all felt that this was a retrograde movement , the pressure was so great that we yielded . 
Mrs. Whiston , reluctant at first , no sooner made up her mind that the thing must be done , than she furthered it with all her might . 
After several attempts to introduce a bill , which were always cut off by some point of order , she unhappily lost her usual patience . 
I don't know that I can exactly explain how it happened , for what the men call parliamentary tactics always made me fidgetty . 
, and cut her off before she had spoken ten words . 
I am in order the right is always in order ! she exclaimed , getting more and more excited . 
I have made a great blunder , she said to me , that evening and it may set us back a little but I shall recover my ground . 
Which she did , I assure you . 
She cultivated the acquaintance of the leaders of both parties , studied their tactics , and quietly waited for a good opportunity to bring in her bill . 
At first , we thought it would pass but one of the male members presently came out with a speech , which dashed our hopes to nothing . 
He simply took the ground that there must be absolute equality in citizenship that every privilege was balanced by a duty , every trust accompanied with its responsibility . 
It was contrary to the spirit of our institutions . 
I will not give Mrs. Whiston's admirable reply for Mr. Spelter informs me that you will not accept an article , if it should make more than seventy or eighty printed pages . 
and the women of the State laid the blame of the failure upon us . 
You may imagine that we suffered under this injustice but worse was to come . 
As I said before , a great many things came up in the Legislature which I did not understand and , to be candid , did not care to understand . 
But I was obliged to vote , nevertheless , and in this extremity I depended pretty much on Mrs. Whiston's counsel . 
One day , I received , to my immense astonishment , a hundred and more letters , all from the northern part of our county . 
I opened them , one after the other , and well , it is beyond my power to tell you what varieties of indignation and abuse fell upon me . 
It seems that I had voted against the bill to charter the Mendip Extension Railroad Co . 
I had been obliged to vote for or against so many things , that it was impossible to recollect them all . 
However , I procured the printed journal , and , sure enough ! there , among the nays , was Strongitharm . 
of being guilty of taking bribes . 
That was only the beginning of my trouble . 
he came home a Captain , without a left arm but Melissa seems to have three arms for his sake . 
You have no idea what a confusion and lamentation there was all over the State . 
In a week , however , the word came from Washington that the Army Regulations of the United States did not admit of their being received and they came home blessing Mr. Stanton . 
This was the end of drafting women in our State . 
Nevertheless , the excitement created by the draft did not subside at once . 
It was seized upon by the Democratic leaders , as part of a plan already concocted , which they then proceeded to set in operation . 
It succeeded only too well , and I don't know when we shall ever see the end of it . 
We had more friends among the Republicans at the start , because all the original Abolitionists in the State came into that party in . 
So their trains were quietly laid , and the match was not applied until all Atlantic was ringing with the protestations of the unwilling conscripts and the laments of their families . 
Most of the prominent women of the State were deluded for a time by this manifestation , and acted with the party for the sake of the sex . 
I am very glad of it , said she , with an expression of great relief , because then my vote will not be needed . 
Why ! I exclaimed you won't decline to vote , surely ? Worse than that , she answered , I am afraid I shall have to vote with the other side . 
Now as I knew her to be a good Republican , I could scarcely believe my ears . 
She blushed , I must admit , when she saw my astonished face . 
I'm so used to Bridget , you know , she continued , and good girls are so very hard to find , nowadays . 
I tried to get them out during the first hours after sunrise , when I went myself , but in vain . 
Even that early , I heard things that made me shudder . 
Those who came later , went home resolved to give up their rights rather than undergo a second experience of rowdyism . 
But it was a jubilee for the servant girls . 
Burroak , which , the year before , had a Republican majority of three hundred , now went for the Democrats by more than five hundred . 
The same party carried the State , electing their Governor by near twenty thousand . 
The Republicans would now have gladly repealed the bill giving us equal rights , but they were in a minority , and the Democrats refused to co operate . 
Mrs. Whiston barely escaped being defeated her majority was reduced from seven hundred to forty three . 
Eleven Democratic Assemblywomen and four Senatoresses were chosen , however , so that she had the consolation of knowing that her sex had gained , although her party had lost . 
She was still in good spirits It will all right itself in time , she said . 
You will readily guess , after what I have related , that I was not only not re elected to the Legislature , but that I was not even a candidate . 
gave me a new revelation of the actual character of political life . 
Mrs. Filch's shawl began to burn my shoulders before I had worn it a half a dozen times . 
Before the next session was half over , I was doubly glad of being safe at home . 
Mrs. Whiston supposed that the increased female representation would give her more support , and indeed it seemed so , at first . 
We read the debates , and my blood fairly boiled when I found what taunts and sneers , and epithets she was forced to endure . 
I wondered how she could sit still under them . 
, and a look from him was generally sufficient to quiet her when she was inclined to be noisy . 
When the resolutions declaring the war a failure were introduced , the party excitement ran higher than ever . 
in the basement story of the State House was crowded during the discussion , and every time Nelly Kirkpatrick came up , her face was a shade deeper red . 
Mr. Gorham's nods and winks were of no avail speak she would , and speak she did , not so very incoherently , after all , but very abusively . 
To be sure , you would never have guessed it , if you had read the quiet and dignified report in the papers on her side , the next day . 
THEN Mrs. Whiston's patience broke down . 
Mr. Speaker , she exclaimed , starting to her feet , I protest against this House being compelled to listen to such a tirade as has just been delivered . 
Of course there were cries of Order ! Order ! and the nearest members Mr. Gorham among the first rushed in but the mischief was done . 
Mrs. Whiston had always urged upon our minds the necessity of not only being dressed according to the popular fashion , but also as elegantly and becomingly as possible . 
If we adopt the Bloomers , she said , we shall never get our rights , while the world stands . 
, and , if you are human beings , you will feel that she must have been wounded to the very heart . 
When she heard THAT , I believe it killed her . 
She resigned her seat , went home , never appeared again in public , and died within a year . 
Only one thing is clear we women cannot do without what we have sometimes , alas ! sneered at as THE CHIVELRY OF THE SEX . 
We have only beheld some Principle riding aloft , not the mud through which her chariot wheels are dragged . 
Of course , we didn't get it the exclusion from suffrage of all who were unable to read and write might have turned the scales again , and given us the State . 
I thought , last fall , that my Maria , who is German , would have voted with us . 
Maria proposed going away a week before election , up into Decatur County , where , she said , some relations , just arrived from Bavaria , had settled . 
After the election was over , and Decatur County , which we had always managed to carry hitherto , went against us , the whole matter was explained . 
About five hundred girls , we were informed , had been COLONIZED in private families , as extra help , for a fortnight , and of course Maria was one of them . 
A committee has been appointed , and a report made on the election frauds in our State , and we shall see , I suppose , whether any help comes of it . 
Now , you mustn't think , from all this , that I am an apostate from the principle of Women's Rights . 
No , indeed ! All the trouble we have had , as I think will be evident to the millions who read my words , comes from THE MEN . 
They have not only made politics their monopoly , but they have fashioned it into a tremendous , elaborate system , in which there is precious little of either principle or honesty . 
with them , until we get a chance to knock off the useless wheels and thingumbobs , and scour the whole concern , inside and out . 
Perhaps the men themselves would like to do this , if they only knew how men have so little talent for cleaning up . 
But when it comes to making a litter , they're at home , let me tell you ! Meanwhile , in our State , things are about as bad as they can be . 
no respectable woman goes , and the fines come heavy on some of us . 
The demoralization among our help is so bad , that we are going to try Co operative Housekeeping . 
We are now so isolated in our rights that we are obliged to bear more than our proper share of the burden . 
But they must do this , somehow or other , without letting the river be tainted by the heaps of pestilent offal it must sweep away . 
I leave you to decide the relative loss and gain . 
Well , since I must come to an end somewhere , let it be here . 
To quote Lord Bacon again , take my round , unvarnished tale , and perhaps the world will yet acknowledge that some good has been done by Yours truly , JANE STRONGITHARM . 
