Prepared by Anthony J. Adam email anthony adam tamu . 
A tract of twelve miles on the river and three or four northwardly was occupied by scattered settlers , while in the centre of the town a compact village had grown up . 
In the immediate vicinity there were but few Indians , and these generally peaceful and inoffensive . 
Three persons were killed in that year . 
In six garrisons were established in different parts of the town , with a small company of soldiers attached to each . 
Two of these houses are still standing . 
Many private houses were strengthened and fortified . 
Longfellow's Evangeline , lines , . 
Tradition has preserved many incidents of life in the garrisons . 
He promptly raised his musket and fired at the intruder , alarming thereby the entire garrison . 
The women and children left their beds , and the men seized their guns and commenced firing on the suspicious object but it seemed to bear a charmed life , and remained unharmed . 
As the morning dawned , however , the mystery was solved by the discovery of a black quilted petticoat hanging on the clothes line completely riddled with balls . 
One instance will serve as an illustration . 
, the business of brick making was carried on . 
An anecdote relating to this garrison has been handed down to the present time . 
Her angel's face As the great eye of heaven shyned bright And made a sunshine in the shadie place Did never mortal eye behold such heavenly grace . 
Spenser The Faerie Queene , bk . 
Growing desperate , he threatened one evening to throw himself into the garrison well . 
His threat only called forth the laughter of his mistress and , bidding her farewell , he proceeded to put it in execution . 
Mary , who had been listening at the door , and who had not believed her lover capable of so rash an act , heard the sudden plunge of the wooden Joseph . 
Our own paternal ancestor , owing to religious scruples in the matter of taking arms even for defence of life and property , refused to leave his undefended house and enter the garrison . 
Strange as it may seem , they never offered any injury or insult to the inmates . 
In the township was many times molested by Indians , and several persons were killed and wounded . 
After a hard and painful journey they arrived at the lake , and were placed in an Indian family , consisting of a man and squaw and two or three children . 
This discovery was a painful one . 
Canada , the land of Papist priests and bloody Indians , was the especial terror of the New England settlers , and the anathema maranatha of Puritan pulpits . 
Thither the Indians usually hurried their captives , where they compelled them to work in their villages or sold them to the French planters . 
Escape from thence through a deep wilderness , and across lakes , and mountains , and almost impassable rivers , without food or guide , is regarded as an impossibility . 
The poor boys , terrified by the prospect of being carried still farther from their home and friends , began to dream of escaping from their masters before they started for Canada . 
It was now winter it would have been little short of madness to have chosen for flight that season of bitter cold and deep snows . 
His Indian mistress was as kind to him as her circumstances permitted , procuring medicinal herbs and roots for her patient , and tenderly watching over him in the long winter nights . 
Spring came at length the snows melted and the ice was broken up on the lake . 
The boys lay down as usual in the wigwam in the midst of the family . 
Joseph soon fell asleep but Isaac , fully sensible of the danger and difficulty of the enterprise before him , lay awake , watchful for his opportunity . 
He had proceeded but a few rods when he heard footsteps behind him and , supposing himself pursued , he hurried into the woods , casting a glance backward . 
What was his joy to see his young companion running after him ! They hastened on in a southerly direction as nearly as they could determine , hoping to reach their distant home . 
When daylight appeared they found a large hollow log , into which they crept for concealment , wisely judging that they would be hotly pursued by their Indian captors . 
Anathema maranatha occurs at the close of St . 
Paul's first epistle to the Corinthians , and in the English version is made to appear as a composite phrase . 
It has so passed into common use , maranatha being taken as intensifying the curse contained in anathema . 
The words are properly to be divided , maranatha signifying The Lord cometh . 
Their sagacity was by no means at fault . 
The Indians , missing their prisoners in the morning , started off in pursuit with their dogs . 
As the young boys lay in the log they could hear the whistle of the Indians and the barking of dogs upon their track . 
It was a trying moment and even the stout heart of the elder boy sank within him as the dogs came up to the log and set up a loud bark of discovery . 
But his presence of mind saved him . 
He spoke in a low tone to the dogs , who , recognizing his familiar voice , wagged their tails with delight , and ceased barking . 
He then threw to them the morsel of moose meat he had taken from the wigwam . 
While the dogs were thus diverted , the Indians made their appearance . 
The boys heard the light , stealthy sound of their moccasins on the leaves . 
They passed close to the log and the dogs , having devoured their moose meat , trotted after their masters . 
Through a crevice in the log the boys looked after them , and saw them disappear in the thick woods . 
They remained in their covert until night , when they started again on their long journey , taking a new route to avoid the Indians . 
At daybreak they again concealed themselves , but travelled the next night and day without resting . 
By this time they had consumed all the bread which they had taken , and were fainting from hunger and weariness . 
On the sixth day they struck upon an old Indian path , and , following it until night , came suddenly upon a camp of the enemy . 
Death in the forest seemed preferable . 
They turned and fled back upon their track , expecting every moment to hear the yells of pursuers . 
The morning found them seated on the bank of a small stream , their feet torn and bleeding , and their bodies emaciated . 
, which served to refresh in some degree himself and his still weaker companion . 
They again began their painful march the day passed , and the night once more overtook them . 
When the eighth morning dawned , the younger of the boys found himself unable to rise from his bed of leaves . 
Isaac endeavored to encourage him , dug roots , and procured water for him but the poor lad was utterly exhausted . 
He had no longer heart or hope . 
The elder boy laid him on leaves and dry grass at the foot of a tree , and with a heavy heart bade him farewell . 
Alone he slowly and painfully proceeded down the stream , now greatly increased in size by tributary rivulets . 
On the top of a hill he climbed with difficulty into a tree , and saw in the distance what seemed to be a clearing and a newly raised frame building . 
Hopeful and rejoicing , he turned back to his young companion , told him what he had seen , and , after chafing his limbs awhile , got him upon his feet . 
Sometimes supporting him , and at others carrying him on his back , the heroic boy staggered towards the clearing . 
On reaching it he found it deserted , and was obliged to continue his journey . 
two years before , just below the falls of the Saco River . 
The soldiers of the garrison gave the poor fellows a kindly welcome . 
An interesting account of Sir William Phips will be found in Parkman's Frontenac and New France under Louis XIV . 
Hawthorne also tells his romantic story in Fanshawe and Other Pieces . 
The lore of the fireside is becoming obsolete , and with the octogenarian few who still linger among us will perish the unwritten history of border life in New England . 
