I stopped swinging my legs and looked at her . 
Then you lied , darling . 
In your white throat , I said pleasantly . 
By the way , d'you know if the petrol's come ? I don't even care , said Daphne . 
But I didn't lie , old chap . 
My word is Your bond ? Quite so . 
The appointment I have in Town that day Which day ? said Daphne , with a faint smile . 
Ah ! It was a bazaar fete thing . 
Daphne and several others euphemistically styled workers had conspired and agreed together to obtain money by false pretences for and on behalf of a certain mission , to wit the Banana . 
I prefer to put it that way . 
There is a certain smack about the wording of an indictment . 
At the same time I realized that I was up against it . 
The crime in question was fixed for Wednesday or Thursday so much I knew . 
I really could not toil up to Town two days running . 
Let's see , I said carelessly , the fete's on er Wednesday , or Thursday , is it ? Which day are you going up to Town ? said Daphne . 
The Bananas are all right , I said , lighting a cigarette . 
They only ate a missionary the other day , said my sister . 
That's bad , said I musingly . 
To any nation the consumption of home produce is of vital We want to make sixty pounds . 
To go towards their next meal ? How much do missionaries cost ? To save their souls alive , said Daphne zealously . 
I'm glad something's to be saved alive , said I. Before she could reply , tea began to appear . 
When the footman had retired to fetch the second instalment of accessories , I pointed the finger of scorn at the table , upon which he had set the tray . 
That parody emanated from a bazaar , I said contemptuously . 
It does for the garden , said my sister . 
It'd do for anything , said I. Its silly sides , its crazy legs Crazy ? cried Daphne indignantly . 
What if it would ? I said severely . 
It's months since we gave up the elephants . 
Is the kettle ready ? It boils not , neither does it sing . 
For which piece of irreverence you will do something on Thursday . 
My dear girl , I said hurriedly , if it were not imperative for me to be in Town You will do something on Thursday . 
And this , I said , this is my mother's daughter ! We have been nursed together , scolded together , dandled in the same arms . 
If she had not been the stronger of the two , we should have played with the same toys . 
The value of a siesta upon a summer afternoon he began . 
I cut in with a bitter laugh . 
What's he going to do ? I said . 
Take a stall , of course , said Daphne . 
Is he ? said Berry comfortably . 
Otherwise Golf , I said , golf ! Why don't I play golf ? I know , said Berry because Miserable man ! said Daphne . 
Who ? said her husband . 
You hear ? he said . 
And why ? Simply because a previous engagement denies to me the opportunity of subscribing to this charitable imposition . 
Humble as would have been my poor assistance , it would have been rendered with a willing heart . 
But there ! he sighed It may not be . 
No. The bold , bad Bananas are in many ways an engaging race . 
Indeed , some of the manners and customs which they affect are of a quite peculiar interest . 
Let us look , brother , for a moment , at their clothing . 
Of course , I said the very thing . 
I've always been so good at tricks . 
I mean it , said Daphne . 
What about the confidence trick ? Can any lady oblige me with a public house ? She means trick cycling , stupid , said Berry . 
Riding backwards on one wheel while you count the ball bearings . 
Look here , I said , if Berry could have come and smoked a cigarette , I wouldn't have minded trying to flick the ash off it with a hunting whip . 
Pity about that golf , mused Berry . 
And you might have thrown knives round me afterwards . 
As it is , you'll have to recite . 
In a few telling sentences I intimated that I would do nothing of the kind . 
I will appear , I said at last , I will appear and run round generally , but I promise nothing more . 
Nonsense , said my sister . 
I have promised , and I'm not going to let you break my word . 
You are going to do something definite . 
You have three days in which to get ready . 
We're going to run over to Barley to whip up the Ashton crowd . 
D'you think we've enough petrol ? I don't even care , said I. Daphne laughed softly . 
Then I must go , she said , getting up . 
Give me a cigarette and tell me if you think this dress'll do . 
I'm going to change my shoes . 
If , said I , producing my cigarette case , if you were half as nice as you invariably look That's a dear , she said , taking a cigarette . 
And now , good bye . 
I watched her retreating figure gloomily . 
Berry began to recite 'We are Seven . 
Thursday morning broke cloudless and brilliant . 
Reluctantly , of course I am not in the habit of rising at cock crow . 
But on this occasion I rose because I could not sleep . 
When I went to bed on Wednesday night , I lay awake thinking deeply about what I was to do on the morrow . 
My brain , usually so fertile , had become barren , and for my three days' contemplation of the subject I had absolutely nothing to show . 
As I threw out the boot jack , I noticed the dawn . 
And as further sleep seemed out of the question , I decided to dress and go out into the woods . 
When I slipped out of Knight's Bottom into the sunlit road to find myself face to face with a Punch and Judy show , I was not far from being momentarily disconcerted . 
When I say 'Punch and Judy show' I am wrong . 
It stood quite alone at the side of the white road . 
I glanced up and down the road , but there was no one in sight . 
I had been feeling hungry , for it was seven o'clock but this was better than breakfast , and I returned to the bank . 
The little red curtains fluttered , as a passing breeze caught them , and I marked how bright and new they looked . 
It was certainly in good condition this booth . 
Well ? said a voice . 
Well ? said I. A pause . 
A girl's voice it was coming from within the booth . 
You seem rather surprised , said the voice . 
No , no , I said , not really surprised . 
You see , I know so few booths . 
What are you doing here ? To be frank , booth , I'm waiting . 
So ? said I. I wait , you wait , let us wait , ye shall have been about to see , they would What are you waiting for ? Developments . 
And you ? My breakfast . 
I looked up and down the road . 
I don't see it coming , I said anxiously . 
What's it look like ? Milk . 
You don't happen to have any , I suppose ? I felt in my pockets . 
There , now , I said , I must have left it on the piano . 
I got up rather hurriedly this morning , I added apologetically . 
I'll tell you what , booth , I'll go and get some . 
No , thanks very much . 
Don't you bother it'll come along presently . 
Are you sure ? This isn't 'The Blue Bird . 
Yes , it's all right really . 
Then Hadn't you better be getting back to breakfast ? said the girl . 
Not much , said I. I don't run up against booths every day . 
Besides Besides what ? Well , booth , I'm awfully curious . 
What do you want to know ? You're very good . 
I didn't say I'd tell you . 
In a word , why are you ? Ah ! I waited in silence for a few moments . 
At length Suppose , she said slowly , suppose a bet had been made . 
A bet ? A bet . 
Well ? Isn't that enough ? Nothing like . 
I don't think much of your imagination . 
I raised my eyes to heaven . 
A prophet is not without honour , I quoted . 
Is this your own country ? It is . 
Oh , I say , you'd be the very man ! I am , I said . 
Of course , she had not meant it . 
She had spoken quite idly , secure in the very impracticability of the thing . 
The booth was run up , the puppets procured . 
The gentle hint that she wanted to withdraw had been let fall at the exact moment with deadly effect , and the wicked work was done . 
She had been motored over and here set down , complete with booth , half an hour ago . 
They were going to look back later , just to see how she was getting on . 
The ordeal was to be over and the wager won by six o'clock , and she might have the assistance of a native in her whimsical venture . 
Right up to the last I believe the brutes thought I would cry off , she said . 
I very nearly did , too , when it came to it . 
Only I saw Peter smiling . 
It is rather a hopeless position , isn't it ? It was . 
But now that you've got your native Oh ! she said . 
Then But I've got one . 
Where ? He's getting the milk . 
I don't believe he is . 
Anyway , you can discharge him and take me on . 
I've been out of work for years . 
Besides , you've been sent . 
In your advent I descry the finger of Providence . 
What do you mean ? This day , I said , I am perforce a zealot . 
A what ? A zealot a Banana zealot . 
You , too , shall be a zealot . 
We will unite our zeal , and this day light such a candle The man's mad , she said . 
You see , I said , it's like this . 
Simply miles away , somewhere south south and by south of us , there are a lot of heathen . 
I don't know very much about it , but there seems to be a sort of understanding that we should keep them in missionaries . 
So every now and then the 'worker' push here get up a fete thing and take money off people . 
Then they find one and send him out . 
Well , there's one of these stunts on this afternoon , and I've been let in to do something . 
That's why I look so pale and interesting . 
The last day or two I've been desperate about it . 
Now what ? If you'd let me help you to day , we could take the show to the fete and simply rake it in . 
It's a splendid way of winning your bet , too . 
Oh , booth , isn't it obvious that you've been sent ? It certainly would be nicer than giving performances about the village , she said musingly . 
If only I knew you You don't know the fellow who isn't getting the milk , I objected . 
He'd be only a servant . 
I would be the same . 
A rabbit loped into the road and blinked curiously at the booth . 
Then he saw me and beat a hasty retreat . 
It is in a good cause , I urged . 
You don't know the Bananas they're absurdly er straight . 
It's all very well for you , she said you know everybody here . 
But it would be an impossible position for me I don't know a soul . 
Now , if we were both strangers Well ? Well , then they wouldn't worry as to who we were and what we had to do with one another . 
Then let's both be strangers . 
How can you be strange to order ? Hush ! I said . 
At home I have put away a Pierrot dress not one of them knows anything about , and I think I can raise a mask . 
If I A stifled exclamation from the booth made me look up . 
Framed in its mouth , her arms folded and resting on the ledge , was the girl . 
What I could see of her was dressed as a Pierrot . 
Her hair was concealed under a black silk cap , and the familiar white felt conical hat sat jauntily over one ear . 
For the rest , a strip of black velvet made an irritating mask . 
I made her a low bow . 
I can see this is going to be a big thing , I said , Won't you come down ? I haven't even said I'll take you , Please . 
You're sure to be recognized , and then , what about me ? Oh , no , I shan't . 
If necessary , I'll wear a false nose . 
I looked round and beheld a small boy approaching with a jug . 
Was that the best you could do in the native line ? You needn't sneer . 
I'm not over confident about my second venture . 
Well , a knave's better than a fool , any day . 
I'm sure I hope so . 
Good man , said my lady , pointing a finger at me . 
The dog came forward , wagging his tail . 
I stooped and spoke with him . 
Then I turned to his mistress . 
She had discarded her white hat and drawn on a long dust coat , which reached almost to her ankles . 
She held it close about her , as she walked . 
It showed off her slim figure to great advantage . 
Below , the wide edges of white duck trousers just appeared above shining insteps and high heeled shoes . 
When the urchin had come up , she took the jug from him with both hands . 
I shall have to drink out of it , she said , raising it to her lips with a smile . 
What ? Hadn't you better I mean , won't the mask get in your way ? She lowered the jug and looked at me . 
No it won't get in the way . 
Thanks all the same , she said steadily . 
It's in the way now . 
I saw her eyes watching my face as she drank , and when she took the jug from her lips she was smiling . 
Thereafter we took counsel together . 
As a result , it was decided that we should fold the booth it shut up like a screen and convey it , puppets and all , a little way into the wood . 
That done , she would lie close in the wood with Toby , while I made off home and changed . 
As I started off , after settling her in the bracken , I heard the village clock strike the half hour . 
I gained the house unobserved . 
No one was abroad except the servants , but I heard Daphne singing in the bathroom . 
I had worn the Pierrot dress two years ago at a fancy dress ball . 
There it lay with its mask at the bottom of the wardrobe . 
The change was soon completed , and I stood up a proper Folly , from the skull cap upon my crown to the pumps upon my feet . 
It took some time to find the nose , but luck was with me , and at last I ran it to earth in an old collar box . 
Truly an appalling article , it stuck straight out from my face like a fat , fiery peg , but between that and the mask , my disguise would defy detection . 
Suddenly I had a brilliant idea . 
I added that I should be with her in the spirit , which , after all , was the main thing . 
I put on a long overcoat and a soft hat . 
The nose went into one pocket , the mask into another . 
Then I went cautiously downstairs and into the dining room . 
It was empty , and breakfast was partially laid . 
In feverish haste I hacked about a pound of meat off a York ham and nearly as much off a new tongue . 
Wrapping the slices in a napkin , I thrust them into the pocket with the nose . 
A quarter of an hour later I was back again in the wood . 
She was sitting on a log , swinging her legs to and fro . 
When I took off my coat and hat , she clapped her hands in delight . 
There now , she said . 
Good for the nose , said I. It's all very well to say that , but it took me ages to get it all under the wretched cap this morning . 
I shouldn't put it back again if I were you . 
You see , I went on earnestly , everybody will know you're a girl , Judy dear . 
Why , Punch ? She drew aside the dust coat and revealed the wide Pierrot trousers she was wearing . 
But what I really love are your feet . 
She looked concernedly at her little , high heeled shoes . 
I stooped to flick the dust from their patent leather . 
What shall I do about my hair , then ? Wear it in a pig tail . 
I'll plait it for you . 
It'll be worth another sovereign to the Bananas . 
If you put it like that she said slowly . 
If the suggestion was not prompted by motives which were entirely disinterested , I think I may be forgiven . 
I say , Judy , I said a little later , pausing unnecessarily in my work , and making pretence to comb with my fingers the tresses as yet ungathered into the plait . 
Yes ? What a long time you are ! Well , there was a knot . 
She tried to look round into my face at that , but I vigorously unplaited about two inches , which seemed to satisfy her . 
For me , I thought of Penelope and her web and the wooers , and smiled . 
Well , what is it , Punch ? About the mask . 
No good ! But , Judy For the next two minutes I did a little listening . 
When she paused for breath Have some ham , I suggested . 
Bother the ham ! Do you hear what I say ? I heard you bother the ham . 
Before that ? Something about a mask , was it ? Give me back my hair , she demanded . 
No , no , I said hastily , not that ! I won't ask again . 
When I had finished the plaiting , I tied the ends with a piece of ribbon which she produced , kissed them , and sat down in the grass at her feet . 
We had oceans of time , for the fete did not begin till two . 
But we agreed there must be a rehearsal of some kind . 
What do you know about yourself , Punch ? I have a foggy recollection of domestic differences . 
You used to beat me cruelly . 
Ah , but you had a nagging tongue , Judy . 
I can hear your defiant 'wootle' now . 
Her lips parted in a smile at the reminiscence , and before they closed again she had slipped something between them . 
The next instant the wood rang with a regular hurricane of toots and wootles . 
Oh , Judy ! Wootle ? she said inquiringly . 
Rather ! But hush you'll wake the echoes . 
And why not ? They ought to be up and about by now . 
They're a sleepy folk , I said they get so little rest . 
Poor echoes ! And they wake very easily here . 
Don't they everywhere ? Oh , no ! I know some that are very heavy sleepers . 
In fact , it's hopeless to try and wake them without the welkin . 
The welkin ? Yes , you make him ring , you know . 
They nearly always hear him . 
And if they don't the first time , you make him ring again . 
For a little space she laughed helplessly . 
At last I am an idiot to encourage you . 
Seriously , she added , about the little play . 
Presently by us to be enacted ? The plot , I said , is as follows . 
Punch has a row with Judy and knocks her out . 
Various well intentioned and benignant fools look in on Punch to pass the time of day , and get very properly knocked out for their pains . 
This is followed by the side splitting incident in which a handy clown not only eludes the thirsty bludgeon , but surreptitiously steals the inevitable sausages . 
Punch , already irritated at having missed clown , misses sausages , and exit in high dudgeon . 
Re enter Judy , followed by sausaged clown , who comforts her . 
Punch sees sausages and begins to find his length . 
Clown sees stars and exit . 
Punch knocks out Judy with a left hook . 
To him , gloating , enter constable . 
It seems Judy's knock out more serious than usual . 
Constable suggests that Punch shall go quietly . 
Punch does not see it , and retires to fetch persuader . 
Constable protests and is persuaded . 
Enter ghost not clear whose ghost , but any ghost in a storm . 
Exit ghost and enter hangman , to whom Punch , unstrung by recent encounter with apparition , falls an easy prey . 
You bow from the mouth of the booth . 
I adjust nose and collect money in diminutive tin pail . 
How's that ? Lovely , Punch ! But where does Toby dear come in ? At the mention of his name the terrier rose and went to her . 
His mistress stroked his soft head . 
In the background , said I. Or the offing . 
I don't think he'd better act . 
Let him be stage door keeper . 
Now open the puppet box . 
It was a nice set of puppets , and they were very simple to manipulate . 
They fitted easily on to the hand , the forefinger controlling the head , and the thumb and second finger the arms . 
The old fellow's cudgel was a dream . 
We decided that I had better stick to Punch and Punch alone . 
For the others she would be answerable . 
After rehearsing for half an hour , we stopped for breakfast . 
In the absence of cutlery , it was a ragged meal , but what mattered that ? We were for letting the world slip we should ne'er be younger . 
Carts rumbled in the distance , and cars sang past on the long , white road . 
Presently came one that slowed and slowed and stopped . 
It was unfortunate that , but a moment before , I should have grown impatient of a large piece of crust and thrust it bodily into my mouth . 
She glanced at me and collapsed in silent infectious laughter . 
Another hour and a half of somewhat desultory rehearsal found us 'wootle' perfect and ready for anything . 
So we laid the puppets by , fed Toby with brown bread and tongue , and rested against the labours of the afternoon . 
The time passed quickly enough too quickly . 
It was a few minutes past one when , having adjusted my mask and slid my nose into position , I got the booth upon my shoulders and stepped out into the road . 
Come along , I said encouragingly . 
Oh , there's something coming . 
Nonsense ! I wish I hadn't packed that bludgeon . 
However , let me once get a good grip on that soft pigtail What again ? Ah , that was in love , Judy . 
The next second she had joined me on the white highway , the faithful Toby a short pace behind her . 
His not to reason why . 
A good fellow , Toby . 
It was rather a nervous moment . 
But , in spite of an approaching wagonette , she walked bravely beside me with the puppet box under her arm . 
The occupants of the vehicle began to evince great curiosity as we drew nearer , but their mare caught sight of my nose at the critical moment and provided an opportune diversion . 
So perish all our enemies ! she said with a sigh of relief . 
Stage fright , Judy , dear . 
You'll be all right in a minute . 
We're bound to excite interest . 
It's what we're for and what we want . 
She handed me the reed , and I held it ready between my lips . 
Buck up , lass ! Ten minutes more and we entered the village . 
The grounds where the fete was to be holden lay three quarters of a mile further on . 
The ball was opened by two small errand boys , on whose hands , as is usual with the breed , time was lying heavily . 
They were engaged in deep converse as we came up , and it was only when we were close upon them that they became aware of our presence . 
For a few seconds they stared at us , apparently rooted to the spot , and as if they could not believe their good fortune . 
Then one broke into an explosive bellow of delight , while the other ran off squeaking with excitement to find other devils who should share the treasure trove . 
But , unlike his infamous predecessor , he was not content with seven . 
When he returned , it was but as the van of a fast swelling rabble . 
And all this time our following grew . 
The news of our advent had spread like wildfire . 
Old men and maidens , young men and boys , the matron and the maid , alike came running . 
Altogether , Lynn Hammer was set throbbing with an excitement such as it had not experienced since the baker's assistant was wrongly arrested for petty larceny in . 
Amongst those who walked close about us , candid speculation as to the probable venue of the performance was rife , while its style , length , value , etc . 
, were all frankly discussed . 
Good little Judy ! It was an ordeal for you , but you came through it with flying colours , though with a flaming cheek . 
Then I got to work . 
This , of course , came to me easily enough , but the crowd only saw therein the lucky ventures of a talkative stranger , and roared with merriment at each happy allusion . 
And so I came to the Bananas . 
Yes , we were for the fete . 
There should we be the livelong afternoon , giving free shows , and only afterwards soliciting contribution from such as could afford to give in a good cause . 
But this was not to be . 
Four good fellows insisted on constituting themselves booth bearers , and the burly drayman gallantly relieved my fair companion of the box of puppets . 
So we came in state to the grounds where the bazaar was to be held . 
On my explaining our intention to put our efforts at their service , and any increment that might result into their pockets , their expression of gratitude was quite touching . 
When I think of all that I said and did on that sunny afternoon , I get hot all over . 
In short , I played the mountebank to a degree that astonished myself , but apparently to some purpose , for the money came in properly . 
On one of these occasions It's not fair that I should take every call , she said , looking down at my upturned face . 
My dear Judy , I have my reward . 
What ? Don't I lift you up every time ? She laughed pleasedly . 
Gallant Punch , you're easily satisfied . 
Am I , Judy am I ? I said gently , taking her hand . 
Yes , she said , snatching it away . 
You are and will be . 
Go out and get the money . 
I adjusted my nose thoughtfully . 
Daphne was , of course , in great evidence . 
Where's your brother ? I heard a worker say . 
Brother ! said Daphne bitterly . 
Coward ! And I really thought we should have him this time . 
Fled to London before we were up this morning , thank you . 
From the amount of food he took with him , and the way he took it , anyone would have thought he was an escaped convict . 
Guilty conscience , I suppose . 
One hears a good deal about record flights nowadays , but I'd back my miserable brother against any aviator . 
My husband's promised to look in about five , if he's back from Huntercombe . 
But they're a wretched lot . 
Oh , here's one of the Pierrots ! I hung the pail on my nose and looked at her . 
As one of the organizers of the fete , she said hastily , I must thank you Nothing doing , madam , said I , in an assumed voice . 
But Free list entirely suspended , madam , and I shook the pail mercilessly . 
A small and grinning crowd had begun to collect , so Daphne parted up with a forced smile , and I went off chuckling to queer the animals' race . 
Our penultimate performance was over , and I was in the midst of my vagaries again , when I saw Berry . 
Unanxious to tempt Providence , I retired precipitately to the shelter of the booth . 
My companion was sitting disconsolately upon the box on which she stood to work her puppets . 
Is it time for the next show ? she said . 
Not for a quarter of an hour . 
I sat down at her feet and removed my mask and nose . 
I'm afraid I persuaded your hand last time , Judy . 
After examining the knuckles carefully , I turned my attention to the soft little palm . 
Obstinacy is clearly indicated by the dimple situate below Saturn and to the right of the watering pot . 
She tried to draw it away , but I tightened my hold and proceeded with my investigation . 
A gentle and confiding nature , characterized by a penchant for escapade , is denoted by the joy wheel at the base of Halley's Comet . 
And so we come to the life belt . 
Now for the heart line . 
The expert will here descry a curious mixture of Further investigation she cut short by so determined an attempt at withdrawal that I let her hand go . 
Oughtn't we to be beginning again ? You're very eager for the last show . 
No , I'm not , but I want to get it over . 
Oh , Judy ! She laid her hand on my shoulder . 
No , Punch , no , I didn't mean that . 
It's sweet of you to say that . 
Don't you think I've liked it ? I leaned forward . 
Dear Judy , I said , very soon it will be over , and we shall go our several ways once more . 
She turned her head away , but she did not speak . 
You'll not forget me , Judy ? She caught her breath and slipped a hand under her mask for a second . 
Then Next show , Punch , she cried . 
No , of course , I shan't . 
You've been very good to me . 
She was on her feet by now and busily arranging the puppets . 
The next moment she had wound a long call upon the reed , which put further converse out of the question . 
The first quarrel seemed to lack its wonted bitterness . 
Punch appeared halfhearted , and Judy was simply walking through . 
I glanced at the girl and stroked her pig tail my pig tail . 
Wootle , I said encouragingly . 
She started at my touch . 
Then she seemed to remember , and flung herself into her part with abandon . 
When the ghost was on , I had a brilliant idea . 
Leave the hangman out , I whispered , and put up Judy instead . 
We'll have a reconciliation to finish with . 
And so to Punch , sobered , shaking , cowering in the corner , with his little plaster hands before his face , came his poor wife . 
Softly went Judy to him again , touched him , and waited . 
This was greeted with prolonged applause . 
Hold it , I said . 
Hold the picture ! As she obeyed I slid my left arm about her , ready to lift her up . 
Suddenly Punch became limp and lifeless in his wife's embrace , and with my freed right hand I slipped her mask over her forehead , smiled into her eyes , and kissed them . 
I promised not to ask again . 
Punch ! So for a moment we two let the world wag . 
Then the whole booth fell heavily over , mouth uppermost , and we within it . 
It was the final of the animal race that was responsible for our overthrow . 
Hurt , dear ? said I. No. As she slipped her mask into place , Berry put his head in at the mouth of the booth . 
Maskless , noseless , I looked at him . 
Slowly his astonished features relaxed in a grin . 
So ! he said softly . 
CHAPTER II CLOTHES AND THE MAN This , said Berry , is all right . 
By which I mean We assured him we knew what he meant , and that no explanation was necessary . 
All right , he said at last . 
I've said it again now . 
You're quite sure you do know what I mean ? Because , if you've the least hesitation Will you be quiet ? said Daphne . 
It was a beautiful August morning . 
We took a couple of days coming down by road , and our run was not without incident . 
I wish cyclists would not hang on behind . 
In Kingston a monger's boy , with some fish that were patently feeling the heat , took hold of the cape hood . 
I spoke with him after a little . 
The use of this hood , I said , for heavy and bulky packages involves risk of injury to passengers , and is prohibited . 
Friend , said I , I perceive you are a humorist . 
Lo , here in this car are already three humorists . 
Under these unfortunate circumstances , I have no alternative but to ask you to withdraw . 
It was just then that the near hind tyre burst exactly under him . 
We gave him half a sovereign towards buying a new bicycle , but I believe he will always think we did it on purpose . 
It had been arranged that we should spend the night at Salisbury and push on to Cornwall on the following day . 
We made the Cathedral city soon after five and slipped out to see Stonehenge . 
There were a few other people there , and one or two of them turned to watch our arrival . 
Berry left the car and went straight to the nearest a fat tradesman , wearing a new imitation panama and a huge calabash . 
Can you tell me if this is Stoke Poges ? we heard him say . 
The rest of us alighted and walked hurriedly away in the opposite direction . 
Clearly my brother in law was in a certain mood and no fit companion for the sensitive . 
Memories of the unutterable torment , to which on like occasions we had been mercilessly subjected , by reason of Berry's most shameless behaviour among strangers , rose up before us . 
The fact that he called after us caused Daphne to break into a run . 
When we had completed the circle of the cromlechs , we came suddenly upon him . 
More to our dismay than surprise he had become the centre of a little knot of excursionists , who were listening to him eagerly . 
As we appeared Ah , he said to the interested company , here is my Aunt ! She'll tell you . 
Aunt Daphne , wasn't it here that father lost the string bag ? Wretched fool ! said Daphne under her breath , turning hurriedly in the direction of the car . 
Berry watched her retreat , and turned to his listeners with a sigh . 
I'm afraid I've gone and upset her now , he said . 
I oughtn't to have reminded her of the untoward incident . 
It was the only string bag they had , and it was an awful blow to her . 
It upset him , too , terribly . 
Never the same man again . 
In fact , from that day he began to go wrong criminally , I mean . 
The little group grew closer to him than ever . 
Like a fool , I stayed to hear more . 
Five years his sentence was . 
Let's see , he ought to be coming out in about oh , about When does father come out , Cousin Albert ? The excursionists gazed greedily at me the felon's son . 
I approached Berry and laid a hand upon his arm . 
Then I turned to the little group . 
This fellow , I said , has got us into trouble before . 
Those of you who have motor cars will understand me when I refer to the great difficulty of securing a really trustworthy chauffeur . 
The crowd of excursionists recoiled , and a small boy in a green flannel blazer burst into tears . 
Any way , I said , there isn't anything like enough evidence against you , so we won't argue it . 
Now , then , we want to be going . 
Half a shake , sir , said Berry , feeling in his pockets . 
You know that knife The company began nervously to disperse . 
Some exhorted one another to observe some feature of the cromlechs which was only visible from some point of vantage on the side other to that on which we stood . 
I'll get it for you , sir , said Berry , opening his knife . 
He wasn't in strict training either . 
Besides , why rope me in ? For yourself , if you must play the comic idiot He wasn't in the picture , said Berry . 
That kid's blazer absolutely killed the grass for miles around . 
Didn't you see how brown it had gone ? That , he added coolly , is the worst of having an artistic eye . 
One must pay for these things . 
After spending the night at Salisbury , we pushed on to the Cornish coast . 
It was not until we were within three miles of our village that we lost the way . 
When we found it again , we were seven miles off . 
That is the worst of a car . 
Stern is a place , where the coast line is a great glory . 
The cliffs rise there , tall , dark , majestic grave , too , especially grave . 
When the sky is grey , they frown always , and even the warm rays of the setting sun but serve to light their grand solemnity . 
Very different is the changing sea at their foot . 
At times it will ripple all day , agog with smiling anon , provoked by an idle breeze's banter , you shall see it black with rage . 
Yet the next dawn finds it alive with mischievous merriment and splitting its sides with laughter , to think how it has duped you the night before . 
And now we were sitting on the cliffs in the heat of the morning sun , half a mile from the village and another from the places where it was best to bathe . 
After a while Aren't you glad I made you come here ? said Daphne triumphantly . 
I sat up and stared at her sorrowfully . 
Well ? she said defiantly . 
You have taken my breath away , I said , Kindly return it , and I will deal with you and your interrogatories . 
I suppose you're going to say it was you It was . 
But for me you would not . 
I drove the car nearly the whole way down . 
I got you all here . 
I sent the luggage on in advance . 
Beyond saying that I was not responsible for the crass and purblind idiocy of railway officials , I ignored this expression of ingratitude and continued to deal with Daphne . 
You know , I said , there are times when I tremble for you . 
Only yesterday , just before dinner , I trembled for you like anything . 
It's the heat , said my target , as if explaining something . 
And my reward is covert reflections upon my sanity . 
Need I say more ? No , said everybody . 
Thank you , ladies and gentlemen , for your kind attention . 
The next performance will be at four o'clock this afternoon , underneath the promenade pier . 
I relapsed into comfortable silence and sank back into the bracken . 
My sister got up from the clump of heather in which she was ensconced , crossed to where I was , took my pipe out of my mouth and kissed me . 
Sorry , old boy , she said you're not such a bad sort , really . 
Dear love , said I , what have you left behind ? My bathing dress , darling . 
In spite of the fact that I returned to the hotel and got it , they were positively rude about the bathing cove I selected . 
Bathe there ? sneered Berry , as we looked down upon it , all smiling in the sun , from the top of the cliffs . 
Thanks awfully , I simply love the flints , don't you , Jill ? Personally , my doctor bled me just before I came away . 
But don't let me stop you others . 
Lead on , brother lead the way to the shambles ! Of course , Daphne took up the running . 
We have between us three shirts . 
Torn into strips , they will make excellent bandages , while for a splint The cove , I said , is ideal . 
Its sand is a field of lilies , its sea perfumed , its boulders sweet smelling cushions . 
Of course , said Berry . 
Why do you tarry ? Forward , friends all ! This way to the drug department . 
Sorry it's too dangerous for you . 
I'll write about some bathing machines to night . 
At one of the bends I looked up and saw them moving north along the coast line . 
I had the cove to myself , and was soon in my bathing dress . 
I swam out about forty yards , and turned just in time to see Berry Co . 
disappear in the distance , apparently descending into a neighbouring cove . 
After a rest on a rock , I set out to swim round and join them . 
It was further than I thought , and I was glad to wade out of the water and lie down on the sand in the sun . 
No sign of the others , by the way . 
But hereabouts the coast was very ragged . 
It must have been the next cove they were making for . 
Quite still , please , said somebody , and the next moment a camera clicked . 
You might have given me time to moisten the lips , said I. I doubt if it would have done any good . 
By the way , I suppose you're The Daily Glass ? How did you find me out ? Rumour travels apace , sir . 
And I had been congratulating myself on eluding the Press since breakfast . 
Well , well ! Only this morning Dry up ! I apostrophized the sea . 
I don't want to have to report the chap , I said , but if The camera clicked again . 
I'm not sure this isn't an assault , I said . 
That it is a trespass , I know . 
Just move your heel out of that pool there's an anemone going to mistake it for a piece of alabaster . 
That's right ! Oh , but , Mermaid , do tell me how you keep your hair so nice when you're bathing ? Like it ? I love it . 
I simply don't put my head under . 
A most dangerous practice , believe me . 
She was sitting on a low slab of rock , clad in a bathing costume of plain dark blue , and fashioned just like my own . 
Her dark hair was parted in the middle and divided at the back into two long , thick plaits which were turned up and hair pinned round the top of her head . 
Her features were beautiful and her eyes big and dark as her hair . 
Her figure was slim and graceful , and her arms and hands and feet were very shapely . 
One brown knee was crossed over the other , and her left hand held the camera . 
I do have luck , you know , I said . 
I merely mean that I am enjoying your society , and I'm glad I came round the corner . 
My companion stared out to sea with a faint smile on her lips . 
I flung out an arm with a gesture of despair . 
Go on , she said . 
Oh , Heavens , I said falteringly . 
Why have you got such big eyes ? At this , to my discomfiture , she broke into peals of merriment . 
Before you looked at me like that , I was really enjoying your company without wanting to kiss you . 
Steady ! Besides your eyes , there's your Look here , it isn't fair . 
I'll race you to that rock out there . 
She was in the water first , but I beat her easily . 
We swam back together , and she took her seat on the slab , while I stretched myself on the sand by her side . 
You're a very singular man , she said after a while . 
I have been told so of many . 
Don't say you want me to make love to you ! Not much ! This emphatically . 
Ah , glad of a change , I suppose . 
There was a silence , while she eyed me suspiciously . 
At length I shall ask you to leave my cove if you're not careful , she said . 
Mermaid , I said , I apologize . 
I was unaware that I had the honour to speak to the lady of the manor . 
Well , if you didn't really know who I was But you mustn't be dull . 
I drew her attention to a sailing ship in the distance . 
Now , that , I said , is what I call a really good ship . 
Barque ! Barque , I mean . 
It must be About five thousand tons Burthen . 
By the way , I never know what that really means unless it means that , if you wanted to lift it , you couldn't . 
It was off just such an one that I was cast away two years ago come Michaelmas . 
We were just standing by in the offing , when she sterruck with a grinding crash . 
I was thrown up on a desert island , I was . 
You ought to have seen me milking the goats on Spyglass Hill . 
Did you wear a goatskin cap ? Did I Not ! And two muskets . 
But my snake belt was the great thing . 
You see Which reminds me I think it's about time I got civilized again . 
Not yet , Mermaid , I pleaded the sun is yet high . 
You don't suppose I'm going to stay here all day , do you ? We're not on your precious island now . 
I only wish we were . 
Whatever's that ? I jumped to my feet and looked towards where she was pointing . 
It looks rather like forgive me a chemise . 
I had her on her feet in a moment , but she dashed the water out of her eves and looked wildly to and fro over the sea . 
What is it , Mermaid ? She tried to stamp her foot but the four inches of water in which she was standing were against her . 
Can't you see , idiot ? This is mine this chemise so's this shoe . 
The tide's come up into my cave while I've been making a fool of myself talking to you , and all my things are gone . 
All right I'll get it . 
I returned temporarily exhausted to the cove . 
She waded out to meet me . 
Tell me exactly where your cave is , I said , as I handed her the flotsam . 
She showed me , and , after a moment or two's rest , I swam out and round to the mouth , only to find the water too high to enter . 
She was anxiously awaiting me , and listened to my report without a word . 
I tried to comfort her . 
I patted her shoulder and took her hand in mine . 
Don't worry , Mermaid dear , I said . 
Trust me I'll think of something . 
I'll swim round to my cove and dress , and then go and get you some fresh clothes before anyone's the wiser . 
See ? I'll go now , I added , getting up and licking the blood off my hand . 
You wait here and I broke off abruptly , and one of the more violent expletives , indicative of combined horror and amazement , escaped my lips before I could stop it . 
What is it ? wailed the Mermaid . 
On the crest of a wave , some thirty yards from the shore , danced my grey hat . 
Beyond it , a little to the right , was something which might be a shirt . 
Stammering incoherent sentences , I staggered into the water and swam for the hat . 
When I had caught it , I went on to get the shirt . 
I would have gone on round the headland to my cove , only the shirt was not my shirt . 
It was Berry's ! Yes , it was had his name on it and all . 
And not ten yards away floated Daphne's straw hat . 
For the next two minutes I was in imminent danger of drowning . 
At last I began to swim feebly , blindly back . 
The next moment the girl caught me by the arm , and I stumbled out and lay down on the dry sand with the shirt clasped to my breast . 
My hat had gone again ages ago . 
Then I looked at the girl kneeling anxiously by my side , and began to laugh again . 
She sat back on her heels , with one hand to her lips and a scared expression on her face . 
He's mad , she said , half to herself , mad ! Must have been stung by a jelly fish or something . 
I've heard I cut her short . 
Mermaid dear , I'm as sane as you are , only Only what ? Everybody's doing it she recoiled doing it ! Listen to me . 
True , that is your chemise . 
True , that out there is my hat there it is . 
But here is Berry's shirt , and miles out there is Daphne's straw hat . 
If I'd stayed long enough , I've no doubt I should have seen Jonah's trousers and Jill's chemisette , which means or mean whichever you like that . 
Hurriedly I explained , and then fell again into uproarious laughter . 
This time she joined me in my mirth . 
At length But , after all , she said , it doesn't make it any better for me , because I'm all alone , while you're a party . 
Certainly not with that on it'd only make it more indec More what ? Er unusual . 
Then What about you ? Me ? How d'you mean ? I said uneasily . 
But , my dear girl , how on earth can I do anything quietly in this dress ? Everybody will be Just finishing lunch or sitting on the terrace . 
I never thought of that . 
Splendid ! Leading to the kitchen , of course . 
They'd never notice me there . 
I know one can do most things nowadays , but But this is a special occasion . 
You seem to want to make it one . 
And it can't be helped . 
This sort of modesty's out of date . 
That's just what I'm afraid of . 
The Mermaid darted behind a rock , and I advanced gratefully up the foreshore to the fringe of stones . 
The noise grew louder , and the slips more frequent , until there was one long one , and then a thud . 
Up rose a fat oath . 
After a moment or two , there limped into sight oh , blessed spectacle ! one of the hotel porters , conventionally hatless and coatless . 
Ah ! said I. The coastguard you sent hailed me , sir , across the fields yonder . 
Said something had happened he didn't know what but he heard the word 'hotel . 
You see , you shouting to him from here , and he being up on top , he couldn't hear anything else rightly , so I came straight down . 
Why didn't be come down himself when er when I shouted ? He was taking a telegram to the post office sir . 
Said he told you so but I suppose you didn't hear . 
I told him that my clothes had been washed away , and that the mermaid was in the same plight . 
I gave him implicit instructions and , with her assistance , the numbers of our respective rooms . 
He wrote it all down . 
He was to get some clothes for me himself , and enlist the services of a chambermaid for my companion . 
Be as quick as you can , I said , as he turned to go . 
You're sure you'll know this cove again ? They're all rather alike . 
That's all right , sir . 
The next moment he was half way up the path . 
If he had looked back , he would have beheld the singular and doubtless pleasing spectacle of the Mermaid and myself doing the real Argentine tango along the stretch of yellow sand . 
She did not see the blood on my hand for a minute or two . 
Then My dear lad , what have you done to your hand ? Cut on the rocks , I said laconically . 
Nothing of any consequence , I assure you . 
I shall be able to proceed home . 
Let me look at it . 
The Mermaid's garments had been placed by the thoughtful chambermaid in a little dressing case . 
Mine were tied together with a piece of string , after the manner of costumes at Nathan's . 
But they were all right . 
The girl started to dress behind a rock , and I told the fellow to wait at the foot of the path . 
I have reason , I said , reason to believe that there are others even now in the same or self same plight as that in which you found us . 
After waiting a minute or two to compose ourselves and settle finally our plan of action , we followed gaily in Berry's wake . 
One and all they sprawled easily on the sand in the hot sunshine , as if care were a thing of the past forgotten , never known . 
This was no more than I had expected of them . 
Al of us hate to be caught bending . 
That artist was busily fashioning a miniature rampart of sand . 
He looked up at my greeting , and rose to his feet . 
I introduced them all to the Mermaid . 
We made friends at lunch , I explained , over the lobsters . 
And then , as we wanted a walk , we thought we'd come along to fetch you back to tea . 
There was a polite murmur of appreciation . 
I must say , I went on , it is glorious . 
I almost wish I'd given up my lunch , too . 
The Mermaid stiffened , but none of the others noticed the error . 
I felt myself colouring like a fool . 
Aren't you going to bathe again ? said Berry . 
There was the note of eagerness in his voice , and I saw a vision of Berry in my clothes striding triumphantly homewards . 
I don't think so , I said carelessly . 
Rather too soon after lunch . 
But I'm going to take off my coat and sit down in the sun . 
After all , he couldn't do much with a coat . 
The Mermaid was already seated between Daphne and Jill , talking vivaciously . 
Jonah pretended to be asleep . 
After a furtive glance at the top of the cliff , Berry resumed his building operations with awful deliberation . 
After a while Well , if you aren't going to bathe any more , aren't you going to dress ? said I. And leave this beauty spot ? said Berry . 
Shame , shame on you , brother ! Go your ways if you will . 
'Then wander forth the sons of Belial . 
You'll just be in time . 
But leave us here in peace . 
I have almost evolved a post futurist picture which will revolutionize the artistic world . 
I shall call it 'The Passing of a Bathe a Fantasy . 
It will present to the minds of all who have not seen it , what they would have rejected for lunch if they had . 
To get the true effect , no one must see it . 
But if some one does ? I shall have already left the country . 
This was too much for Daphne , and she asked Jonah to come and help her to get some mussels . 
What on earth does she want mussels for ? said I. The garden paths , said Berry . 
Our cobbles aren't wearing at all well . 
I turned to the Mermaid . 
She was chattering away to Jill , with her back towards me . 
Over her shoulder , Jill's grey eyes regarded me wistfully . 
I made a rapid calculation . 
Yes , the porter ought to have arrived by now . 
I had told him to keep out of sight till I called him . 
I waited until Daphne and Jonah came strolling back empty handed . 
They had forgotten about the mussels . 
Daphne's brows were knitted , and Jonah was looking ruefully at the sun . 
It was getting on for half past three . 
One could guess that much . 
I rose and picked up my coat . 
I say , aren't you ever going to dress any more ? I said . 
Daphne swallowed before replying , and with the tail of my eye I saw Berry start and wreck six inches of architecture . 
Then Presently , said my big sister . 
You two go on and order a big tea at the farm , and by the time it's ready You can't have tea like that , I said . 
In the dead silence that followed this remark , the Mermaid rose and brushed the sand from her dress . 
I went up to Daphne and kissed her . 
Don't think I'm not proud of you , darling , and Jill looks lovely , too , but they wouldn't stand it , you know . 
No one stirred except the Mermaid , and she , obedient to the instructions I had given her , strolled naturally enough towards the path up the cliff . 
The other four were looking at me straitly I could feel their gaze wondering whether , whether I knew . 
I shaded my eyes with my hand and stared seawards . 
Do dress , I said absently . 
We shall dress when we want to , said Daphne sharply . 
I turned to see the Mermaiden reach the path . 
A good start is everything . 
If you really mean that , I said slowly , I'll send your other clothes back again . 
Then I raised my voice Porter ! I cried . 
Sir ! came from above us . 
Behold , now I let the rest of the quotation go , as I wanted to rejoin the mermaid , looking as she had last seen me . 
Berry said afterwards that Jonah gained on me while the sand lasted , but the loose stones at the foot of the path were my salvation . 
As I passed the porter , I told him to say that a square meal would be awaiting them at the farm . 
We ordered it generously enough , but , despite our hunger , the Mermaid and I decided to have our own tea at the hotel . 
Thither we set out to walk through the fields . 
Suddenly she stopped as we were crossing a deep lane . 
I don't know why you're here , she said . 
Try and think , Mermaid . 
You'd better go and have another bathe . 
Now , Mermaid , you know Afterwards you'll be wishing you had given up your tea , if you don't . 
I knew we should have this , I said . 
Well , it wasn't very polite of you , was it ? It wouldn't have been . 
She eyed me scornfully for a moment . 
Then I'm disappointed in you , she said . 
You'll be more so in a moment , said I. Why ? You're not going to have a change , after all . 
Don't say you're going to make Love to you ? Yes , I am . 
She looked me up and down for a moment . 
I might have known better than to say a thing like that . 
All the same , it wasn't meant for a challenge , Mermaiden . 
She looked at me with a mischievous smile . 
And now I broke off and took her small , brown hand . 
Up went the dark eyebrows . 
I shouldn't like you to think that I thought you wanted to kiss me , she said . 
I think nothing , said I. But one thing I know . 
And that is ? That it would be a crime if I didn't . 
The very stones would cry out . 
I don't think they would . 
I'm afraid they might , said I. CHAPTER III WHEN IT WAS DARK Daphne pointed suddenly to the stile . 
This is it , she said . 
We get over here and go across the meadow , and there's the wood beyond the gate that we've got to to what's the word ? Encompass ? I hazarded . 
Skirt thank you till we come upon the carttrack . 
And then ? said I. Then we're all right , she said defiantly . 
It was an autumn afternoon in the county of Devon . 
There were we staying at a retired farmhouse , fleeting the time carelessly , simply , healthily . 
We never asked her to . 
But as such we just accepted her . 
We were quite passive in the matter . 
Going , she had guided us with a careless confidence which shamed suspicion . 
But coming back , she had early displayed unmistakable signs of hesitation and anxiety . 
Thereafter she had plunged desperately , with the result that at three o'clock we found ourselves reduced to a swine herd who had been drinking . 
The latter detailed to us four several routes , and assured us that it was utterly impossible to miss any one of them . 
To put it quite shortly , he was mistaken . 
Within half an hour we had missed them all . 
in a strange county , and not a soul in sight . 
We plodded in silence across the meadow . 
Didn't say anything about a bog , did he ? said Berry , drawing his left leg out of some mire with a noise that made me shudder . 
Jill slid a warm arm into mine , and broke into long laughter . 
Don't encourage the fool , said Daphne . 
We skirted the wood successfully to find that there never could have been a cart track . 
Berry leaned against a wall of stones . 
What a picture , he said ecstatically . 
The setting sun , the little band , the matron and the maid , mist rising , shadows falling subject for next year's Academy , 'The Walkers . 
Idiot ! said Daphne shortly . 
Do I hear aright ? said Berry . 
Berry covered his face with his hat , and begged us to excuse his emotion . 
I have an idea , said I. If it's one of your usual ones , we don't want it , said Daphne . 
No , that is not my idea . 
But , as a would have been boy scout , I recognize in this spot a natural camping place . 
That water is close at hand , we know from Scout Berry . 
Jonah can take the first watch , Berry the second , Jonah the third , and and so on . 
My own energy I shall reserve for the dog watch . 
Oh , stop him , somebody , wailed Daphne . 
I said dog watch , dear , not stop watch . 
Before we bivouac I will scale yon beetling mount if peradventure I may perceive one that will point us homeward . 
Scout Berry ! Sir , said Berry . 
You know your duties ! I do that , sir . 
If the worst comes to the worst , kill the women out of hand , or with your own hand I don't care which . 
Age before honesty , you know . 
Five minutes later I was back among them again . 
Well , said Daphne eagerly , you haven't been right to the top , have you ? Oh , no . 
I only came back to say that when I said 'Age before honesty' just now , I really meant 'Death before dishonour , you know , and I turned up the bank again . 
I regret to say that Berry and Jonah thought it decent to attempt to stone my retreating figure . 
Ten minutes' walking brought me to a clearing on the top , which afforded a magnificent view . 
Hill and dale , woodland and pasture , stone wall and hedgerow , as far as I could see . 
When I returned to the camp to find them gone I was rather bored . 
The note that they had left made it worse Regret compelled retire owing to serious outflanking movement on part of the Blues . 
Sorry , but that's the worst of being picket . 
The natural intuition which characterizes all BSS will enable you to discern our route . 
Although I tried four times mainly because Jonah had my matches I was unable to discern their route . 
At last I came down to shouting , but only succeeded in arousing the curiosity of three cows and a well nourished ram . 
The latter was so well nourished that when he had stamped for the second time , I thought it prudent to get over the wall . 
I did so with about four seconds to spare . 
Nothing daunted , the winning animal took a short run and butted the wall with surprising vigour . 
When three large stones had fallen for seven runs , I offered up a short prayer that Berry Co . 
might return to look for me , and hastened to put two more walls between us . 
I suppose it was the river that I saw in the distance , from the summit of that fair hill . 
Three and a half hours later I came upon the first signs of animal life as opposed to vegetable since the ram . 
Up hill , down dale , along roads , along imitation roads , along future roads , along past roads , across moors I had tramped doggedly , blindly , and rather angrily . 
If I had had one match only one match it would have been different . 
Yes , it was a dog cart . 
And through the gloom I could distinctly see the shape of some one sitting in it , holding the reins . 
I say , have you got a match ? A girl's voice . 
That's about the worst thing you could have said . 
said I. Why ? Because a match is the one thing I've been wanting for the last four hours . 
Swear for me , will you ? Certainly , madam . 
What sort of an oath would you like ? We have a very large assortment in stock fresh lot in only this afternoon . 
Now , I've got a very nice thing in oaths I want a round one . 
And the usual black , I presume . 
We have been doing rather a lot in the way of blue oaths lately . 
How do you like that , madam ? That'll do . 
Much obliged to you , madam . 
Nothing else I can show you ? Nothing in the curse line ? No , thanks . 
Presently I said 'good day , said the girl . 
Yes , said I but , then , we were only playing . 
Oh , were you ? Any way , you haven't paid yet , I said desperately . 
How much do you want ? It was a very common oath . 
I've plenty more , if you like . 
For instance Hush ! Not before the mare . 
What's your price ? The privilege of accompanying you on foot till we can get a light . 
You can't drive at more than a walking pace on this road without lamps . 
And it's not right for you to be alone . 
But are you going my way ? I've not the faintest idea . 
Are you lost , then ? Hopelessly . 
Where do you want to get to ? A farmhouse three miles out of Lorn . 
Which side of Lorn ? Well , if I'm the same side of Lorn as I was at one o'clock this afternoon , it's the other side . 
Well , but aren't you ? My dear girl , I don't know . 
Well , I'm going to Lorn , any way , she said , so come along . 
Heaven will reward you , said I , and climbed into the cart . 
After a minute or two , I took the near wheel eighteen inches up the bank . 
Sorry , said the girl , as she disengaged herself from my neck and arms and resumed her seat , but it was your fault for taking it up the bank . 
I hope you weren't frightened . 
You drive rather well , considering . 
Considering what ? Considering it's your first shot . 
In silence I gave her the reins . 
After that , I said icily , after that there is no more to be said . 
It is a little winning way I have . 
Most criminals when charged make no reply . 
When I am arrested , I shall protest in anapaests . 
As I was saying , was it for this ? Stop , stop , she said , laughing you drive all right beautifully . 
I took the reins again . 
It was getting very cold , and I put the rug carefully about her . 
You're very good , she said , but wait . 
I felt her hand on my knee . 
Oh , you haven't got any of it . 
She would have untucked it again if I hadn't caught her wrist . 
That's all right , I said . 
My dear , doctor's orders . 
Eat and drink what you like . 
Smoke in moderation , and get up as late as you please . 
As the wrist felt unconvinced , I slipped it through my arm , where it lay comfortably enough . 
Do vou often do this sort of thing ? I said presently . 
Get late coming home and have no lights ? Not often . 
I'm glad of that I'm sure it's very dangerous . 
Good whips like myself aren't as common as blackberries . 
And so few tramps one meets nowadays can drive really well . 
How did you know ? Intuition , I said carelessly . 
You see I'm a boy scout . 
She laid a slim , warm wrist against my cheek . 
I distinctly felt the cold round glass of a wrist watch . 
And I've got a chain purse in my bag . 
Ah ! Go on , boy scout . 
Tell me what I look like in the daytime . 
You have ear rings and your face is rather cold . 
About the kind of ear rings I am not certain . 
How did you know that ? I found that out , when er when we went up the bank . 
Oh ! Yes , I went on hurriedly , and Am I dark or fair ? Ilooked hopelessly at where I knew my companion was sitting . 
Then Dark , I said , after a minute . 
Dark , with long eyelashes and two brown eyes . 
Two ! Yes , I think so . 
Dimples ? I think not . 
Yes , what ? Yes , please , teacher . 
What did you mean by 'yes' ? Sorry . 
I thought you were asking me if you'd got a nose , and I think you have . 
Sorry if I'm wrong , but when you're in the dark Yes , but what sort of nose ? Here I got the near wheel up the bank again with great effect . 
You have a hard nose , I said doggedly . 
I was almost sure that the ear rings were pearl ear rings . 
The cold was making us silent . 
My fingers were getting numbed , but I dared not chafe them . 
I was afraid of the rug . 
You're not doing much for your drive , she said presently . 
You want to converse ? Yes . 
I didn't see you at Blackpool this year . 
Yes , isn't it ? What's your recreation ? Forgive my seeming inquisitiveness , but I've just joined the staff of Who's Who . 
What ? No , who ? Recreation ? Yes . 
Don't you collect cats or keep stamps or motor boat or mountebank , I mean mountaineer , or anything ? No. Never mind . 
I expect you know Oldham rather well , don't you ? Not at all . 
Why ? Because I don't know it either , and I thought What ? Well , you know , we ought to know Oldham one of us ought to . 
It was a Unionist gain last time . 
Are you a Unionist ? My dear , you see in me at least you would see in me , if it were not so dark a high Tory . 
I thought you were a boy scout . 
The two are not incompatible . 
Did you see that thing in Ally Sloper last week ? No , I didn't . 
I got down and opened it , and she drove carefully through . 
It was the first of seven gates . 
By the time we had done six , I was becoming good at getting up and down , but rather tired . 
As I resumed my seat for the sixth time , I sighed . 
For the sixth time she returned me the reins . 
You don't take much care of your clothes , boy scout , she said . 
Nearly all the men I know hitch up their trousers when they sit down . 
My dear girl , I don't know how you can see I don't , but I don't because I haven't got any on . 
I mean , I'm wearing breeches . 
Would you hitch them up if you had got on trousers ? Let's see , to day's Thursday . 
Why do men always bother so about their knees ? Take care of the bags , and the coats will take care of themselves , I observed sententiously . 
But why ? Here we came apon the seventh gate . 
Six gates shalt thou labour , and do all that thou hast to do , but the seventh Out you get , boy scout . 
I laid a hand on my companion's shoulder . 
Are you an enchantress ? I said . 
At least , of course you are . 
Note the blank verse again . 
I may say I am looking at you narrowly . 
Fret not for thy sword , Sir Scout . 
she replied , neither flatter thyself that Circe wastes her spells on all who come her way . 
Those only will she lure who I simply love your voice , I said . 
Get down and open the gate . 
I did so , and climbed slowly back . 
It's all right , she said , We haven't got much further to go . 
It's rather funny , isn't it ? Our meeting in the dark like this and driving all these miles together and not being able to see each other once . 
Unique , I should think . 
Yes , it's rather like being in a cell next to some one and talking by rapping against the wall . 
Is it ? Yes , it reminds me awfully of my young days at Brixton . 
Were you at school there ? Yes , for five years , before I went to Dartmoor . 
Oh , were you at Dartmoor ? I had a cousin there a year or two ago . 
What ! Not Billy Taber ? That's right . 
This is very strange , Circe . 
Round to the left here . 
Dilberry ! Why , that's Where you're staying ? I gulped , and laid the whip over the mare's shoulders . 
No , I said doggedly , it's not . 
She laid two firm little hands on my left and pulled the mare up . 
What are we stopping for ? I said . 
You can't get a good view from here to day . 
But , Circe Be quick . 
Won't you come in and get warm before you go on , or borrow another rug , or No , thanks awfully , I must get home . 
Mayn't I see you there ? I can easily walk back . 
No , thanks awfully , boy scout . 
You mean it ? I do . 
I gave her the reins and got heavily out of the dog cart . 
She moved on to the seat I had vacated and I put the rug carefully round her feet . 
Let me get some matches . 
At least your lamps shall be lighted . 
Not a bit of it . 
Said she didn't want them lighted . 
While I was speaking , my fingers had mechanically strayed to the ticket pocket of my coat , where I sometimes carry my matches loose . 
By George ! I said . 
What is it ? I've just found a bit of a match with the head on . 
Oh , boy scout , and you've had it all the time . 
Yes , but it wouldn't be enough to light the lamps with . 
Oh ! Not the lamps . 
What would it be enough for ? A face , Circe . 
How ? Well , I' strike it on the tire , and then hold it between us . 
It'll only last a second it's not a quarter of an inch long . 
You'll have to bend down . 
Nerve yourself for the shock , Circe . 
Think you can stand it ? I'll try . 
Keep your back to the mare . 
I heard her lean over and struck the match on the tire , I raised it cautiously , sheltering it with my hands . 
Just as I was about to raise my eyes Thank you , she said , very softly , and blew it out . 
I laid my hands on her shoulders . 
I won't say 'damn , I said . 
I'Il say 'good bye' instead , like like a good boy scout . 
Oh , but that isn't Yes , I said . 
When the clatter of the mare's hoofs had died away in the distance , I walked slowly up to the farm . 
I was quite sure about the ear rings this time . 
At least , about the one in her left ear . 
Ah , said Daphne , as I entered the room , where have you been all this time ? All things considered , I thought that was rather good . 
I don't think I've been into Cornwall , I said , but I've done Devon pretty thoroughly . 
We went back for you . 
Ah ! Why do you say 'Ah ! ? Oh , I don't know . 
Didn't see anything of a ram , did you ? I added carelessly . 
Not until after he'd seen Berry , said Jonah . 
Ah , where is Berry ? Upstairs , said Daphne . 
He did er see Berry then ? Yes . 
Er how did he see him ? I mean hang it , I didn't bring the beastly ram there . 
You left him there , said Daphne . 
I know but you can't pick up every tame ram you meet . 
Besides Tame ! said Jonah . 
Good Lord ! He saw Berry , you say ? Did he see him well ? I think he'd have seen him home , if it hadn't been for the brook . 
He saw him as far as that , did he ? He saw him half way across . 
I regret to say I laughed so immoderately that I never noticed that Berry had entered the room , until he clapped me on the shoulder . 
It was a neat revenge , said that gentleman very neat , my boy . 
But you deserve six months for it . 
Hang it , I said , you seem to think I I should certainly have haunted you , said Berry . 
Six weeks had sloped by . 
The train ran slowly into the station . 
Then I remembered my umbrella and got back . 
Then I got out again . 
The individual addressed turned round , and I saw it was the station master . 
For a few moments he regarded me with indignation , obviously wondering whether he would be exceeding his duty if he ordered me to be flung to the engine . 
Two inspectors hovered longingly near him . 
Then he said Chut ! and turned away . 
I fought my way the length of the platform to the vicinity of the luggage van . 
Four porters were standing looking moodily at the luggage already upon the platform . 
I touched one on the shoulder . 
Yes , I said , it's a nice bit of luggage , isn't it ? He said it was . 
Don't you think it's that dressing case that does it ? Lends an air of distinction to the rest . 
Staying at Watereaton ? It was she . 
Very fair , very blue eyes , a beautiful skin , and yes , a dimple . 
She was wearing a long , fur coat , while a little black felt hat with a ghost of a brim leaned exquisitely over one of the blue eyes . 
Her hands were plunged into deep pockets , but a pair of most admirable legs more than made good the deficit . 
Not in you you're beautiful . 
Yes , I shall resign . 
Resign ? My scout hood . 
You were wrong about my hair , but But what ? You knew me again , at any rate . 
What of the night ? said I. Doth the blizzard yet blizz ? said Berry . 
It doth , said Jonah . 
Then he turned to Daphne . 
Darling , you have my warmest Yuletide greetings and heartiest good wishes for a bright New Year . 
Remember the old saying You may have move pretentious wishes , But more sincere you can't than this is . 
Do you believe it's going on like this ? said his wife . 
Dear heart two words my love for you is imperishable . 
If it were left at the goods station for a month during a tram strike , it would , unlike the sausages , emerge fresh and sweet as of yore . 
I meant the weather , as you know . 
A rebuff , said her husband . 
Do I care ? Never . 
Strike me in the wind , and I will offer you my second wind for another blow . 
I did not forget everything when I married you . 
This berlizzard German has its disadvantages . 
A little more , and we shan't be able to bathe to morrow . 
Think of the Yule log . 
Here he regarded his empty glass for a moment . 
Woman , lo , your lord's beaker requires replenishing . 
I ought not to have to tell you , really . 
Daphne selected one of the harder chocolates , took careful aim , and discharged it in the direction of her husband's face . 
It struck him on the nose . 
Good shot , said I. That entitles you to a vase . 
If you like , you can have another two shots instead . 
I'll take the vase , said my sister . 
For all the area of the target , I mightn't hit it again . 
A few years ago , said Berry , you would probably have been pressed to death for this impious display . 
In consideration of your age , you might instead have been sent to a turret . 
What's a turret ? said Jill . 
Old English for bathroom , dear , and kept there till you had worked the murder of Becket in tapestry and four acts . 
I shall be more merciful . 
Oh , but we must , said Jill . 
My dear , I'm not going out in this sort of weather without Sjvensen , and he may be too busy to leave town . 
Besides , the blubber hasn't come yet . 
Couldn't we get hold of Wenceslas ? said I. He's getting five million a week at the Palliseum . 
Makes footprints there twice daily in real snow . 
The audience are invited to come and tread in them . 
They do , too , like anything . 
Happily , Wenceslas is famed for the size of his feet . 
But you can't expect a man to leave But it can't go on like this , said Daphne My dear , English weather is like your dear self capable of anything . 
Be thankful that we have only snow . 
If it occurred to it to rain icebergs , so that we were compelled willy or even nilly to give up sleeping out of doors , it would do so . 
What about turning out , eh ? Light the lanthorn , Jonah , and give me my dressing gown . 
If you want to make me really ill , said Daphne , you'll go on talking about bathing and sleeping out of doors . 
Berry laughed a fat laugh . 
My dear , he explained , I was only joking . 
We were all housed together in an old , old country inn , the inn of Fallow , which village lies sleeping at the foot of the Cotswold Hills . 
We knew the place well . 
The inn itself had sheltered Cromwell , and before his time better men than he had warmed themselves at the great hearth round which we sat . 
For all that , he had given his name to the panelled room . 
Our bedrooms were as old , low pitched and full of beams . 
The stairs also were a great glory . 
In fact , the house was in its way unique . 
A discreet decorator , too , had made it comfortable . 
Save in the Cromwell room , electric light was everywhere . 
And in the morning chambermaids led you by crooked passages over uneven doors to white bathrooms . 
Hither we had come to spend Christmas and the New Year . 
By day we walked for miles over the Cotswolds , or took the car and looked up friends who were keeping Christmas in the country , not too manv miles away . 
The Dales of Stoy had been kind , and before the frost came I had had two days' hunting with the Heythrop . 
And to morrow was New Year's Eve . 
Four miles the other side of the old market town of Steeple Abbas , and twenty one miles from Pallow , stood Bill Manor , where the Hathaways lived . 
This good man and his wife Milly were among our greatest friends , and they had wanted us to spend Christmas with them . 
Though we had not done so , we had motored over several times and they had lunched with us at Fallow only the day before . 
And for New Year's Eve the Hathaways had arranged a small but very special ball , to which , of course , we were bidden . 
Indeed , I think the ball was more for us than for anyone else . 
Anyway , Jim and Milly said so . 
Nobody had anticipated such heavy weather . 
And now it was a question whether we should be able to go . 
Also , if we went , whether we should be able to get back . 
Daphne and Jill insisted that go we must , could , and should . 
Berry and Jonah opposed us the latter quietly , as is his wont , the former with a simple stream of provoking irony . 
At length Very well , ghouls , said Berry , have your most wicked way . 
Doubtless the good monks of the Hospice will find my corpse . 
I wish the drinking trough , which will be erected to my memory , to stand half way up St . 
How strange it will sound in future . 
What'll sound ? said Jill . 
The new Saint's Day , dear Berrymas . 
When order had been restored , Jonah suggested that we should adjourn the debate till the next morning , in case it stopped snowing during the night . 
As it was nearly one , the idea seemed a good one , and we went to bed . 
The morning was bright and cloudless . 
The cold was intense , but the sun glorious , while the clear blue sky looked as if it had never heard of snow . 
But the snow lay thick upon the ground , and it was freezing hard . 
We can get there all right , said Jonah , but I don't see the car coming back at four o'clock in the morning . 
No , thanks , I'Il have marmalade . 
There's almost a full moon , said I. I know , said Berry , but the banjo's being painted . 
We'd better stop at the inn at Steeple Abbas , said Jonah . 
If we can get as far as Steeple , we can make Fallow , said I. Remember , I'm driving . 
We are not likely to forget it , brother , said Berry . 
If you knew the difference between the petrol tank and the gear box But I do . 
Petrol in one , tools in the other . 
Jonah's right , said Daphne . 
We'd better stop at Steeple . 
Not I. said I. Nor me , said Jill . 
Boy and I'll come back to our dear Fallow and our nice big grate and our own beds . 
Good little girl , said I. Berry emptied his mouth and began to recite Excelsior . 
At twenty minutes past three the next morning I drove out of the courtyard of 'The Three Bulls' , Steeple Abbas . 
The people had evidently half expected her back , for , as we stopped at the door , it was flung open and the landlord stood ready to welcome her in . 
The next moment I was once more on my way . 
In spite of the weather , the car went well , and I had soon covered more than half the distance . 
I was just about to emerge from a side road on to the main highway , when a dark mass right on the opposite corner against the hedgerow attracted my attention . 
The next second my head lights showed what it was , and I slowed down . 
All its lights were out , and fresh snow was beginning to gather on the top against the luggage rail . 
The limousine was evidently a derelict . 
You look just like a picture I've seen somewhere , said a gentle voice . 
And you've got a voice just like a dream I've dreamed some time or other . 
Try the woman in the car . 
One moment , said I. I know . 
What ? I know who you are . 
Who am I ? Why , you're New Year's Eve . 
A little laugh answered me . 
I know I've dreamed that laugh , said I. However , where were we ? Oh , I know . 
And your father , Christmas , has gone for help . 
If I know anything , he won't be back again for ages . 
Seriously , how did what happen ? Chauffeur took the turn rather late , and next moment we were up the bank and in this wretched drift . 
It wasn't altogether the man's fault . 
One of our head lights wouldn't work , and you couldn't see the drift till we were in it . 
He might have known better than to run so close to the hedge these days . 
He's paying for it , any way , poor man . 
He's got to walk till he finds a farm where they'll lend him horses to get the car out . 
Considering the hour and the climatic conditions , I don't suppose the farmers will come running . 
I mean they'll wait to put some clothes on . 
Besides , he doesn't know the district , so he's up against something this little night . 
Of all nights , too , Eve ! But what about her , poor lass ? Oh , I'm all right . 
But don't you find it rather hot in there ? Can I turn on the electric fan ? I've been making good resolutions to pass the time . 
Hurray ! So've I. I'm going to give up ferns . 
And you can tell me yours as we go along . 
Go along ? Yes , my dear . 
Didn't I tell you I was a highwayman ? I only left York two hours ago . 
Yes , I came by the boat train , with Black Bess in a horse box . 
And now I'm going to abduct you , Eve . 
Your soul's not your own when you're up against High Toby . 
I have a pistol in my holster , a cloak on my back , and a price on my head . 
My enemies call me Red Nat , me friends I paused . 
What do your friends call you ? Adam , said I. Let's see . 
You'll have to get out on the near side , won't you ? Wait a moment . 
I plunged round the back of the car and opened the door . 
Certainly it was terribly cold . 
While we had been talking , she had been leaning against the side of the tilted car , with her face close to the inch and a half of open window . 
Except for an occasional flash , which had showed where her eyes were , I had not seen her at all . 
Expectantly I raised the lamp and peered into the limousine . 
Out of a huge fur rug a solitary eye regarded me steadily . 
Only one eye ? I said . 
How did it happen ? The solitary eye went out , and then reappeared with a fellow . 
You remind me of the North Foreland , said I. That's an intermittent light , isn't it ? Two winks and a blink every ten seconds . 
This in a plainly indignant , if muffled tone too muffled for me . 
So I beg your pardon , said I. A little hand appeared and pulled the rug away from a small white nose and a mouth whose lips were paler than they should be . 
But it was a dear mouth . 
I said I didn't wink . 
I don't mean you did , you know . 
I mean , I know you said you didn't . 
I'm not sure I've got it right now . 
I've only one brain , and at this hour of night The vitality of the human frame is at its lowest ebb . 
That's why you must let me get you out of this as quick as possible . 
Oh , but I don't think I mean My dear Eve , I know you come of an old fashioned family look at your father but Convention's going by the board to night . 
I'm staying at an inn about nine miles away . 
We'll be there under the half hour . 
There's supper and a fire waiting for us , Why , yes , and you can have Jill's room . 
Of course , there'll be a fire there , too , and everything ready . 
You see Hurriedly I explained the situation . 
When I had finished But what'll the inn people think ? she said , with big eyes . 
Oh , hang the inn people ? And supposing it got out ? I think the proceedings at the inquest would read worse , my dear . 
Get up and come along at once . 
Oh , but you know I can't . 
You'll die if you stop here much longer , my dear child . 
Do you realize how cold it really is ? A faint smile came over the gentle face , set in its frame of fur . 
Poor lass , I cried . 
What a fool I am . 
Give me her hand , and I'Il help her up . 
But what about Falcon ? The chauffeur ? She nodded . 
I thought for a moment , then I looked for the companion . 
There , happily , were tablets and a pencil . 
We'll write him a note , said I. Wait a minute . 
With difficulty I scrawled a few words . 
Then How will this do ? Falcon , I have been found and taken to shelter . 
If possible , bring the car to 'The Three Bulls , Steeple Abbas , by noon tomorrow . 
Will you sign it ? I put the pencil into her hand and held the lamp for her to see . 
When she had finished , I laid the tablets on the seat , where they must be seen at once . 
When I looked at her again , I saw she was smiling . 
So there's something in the nickname , after all ? What nickname ? said I. Red Nat ? No. 'Gentleman of the road , Adam . 
If I could feel my mouth , I'd kiss your hand for that . 
As it is I helped her to her feet and set the lamp on the front seat . 
Then I bade her stand in the doorway while I wrapped the rug about her . 
I'm afraid I can't dig you a pathway , so I'm going to carry you to my car . 
I used to be able to delve once When Who was a gentleman ? Exactly . 
But I'm out of practice now . 
Besides , I left my niblick in London . 
Don't be frightened if I slip . 
Yes , I'll come back for your dressing case . 
The next moment she was in my arms , and three minutes later we were making for Fallow at nearer thirty than twenty miles an hour . 
As we an into the village , I heard the church clock chime the half hour . 
A moment later I had stopped at the old inn's door . 
Except for a flickering light , visible between the curtains of the Cromwell room , the place was in darkness . 
I clambered stiffly out and felt for the key I had asked for . 
A Yale lock in the studded door ! Never mind . 
This door is only a reproduction . 
The original probably shuts off some pantry from some servants' hall in New York City . 
When I had switched on a course of lights , I went back to the car and opened the door . 
Have I said that it was a cabriolet ? Eve , said I. No answer , I took the lamp once more and flooded the car with light . 
In the far corner , still wrapped in the rugs , my lady lay fast asleep . 
With some difficulty I got her into my arms . 
On the threshold I met Thomas , our waiter . 
He had little on but a coat and trousers , and there was slumber in his eyes . 
I didn't wait up , sir , he explained , but , hearing the car , I just come down to see you'd got everything . 
Miss Mansel asleep , sir ? I stared at him for a moment and then looked down at the charge in my arms . 
A corner of the rug had fallen over her face . 
Thomas , naturally enough , thought it was Jill . 
Er yes , said I. She's tired , you know . 
And you'd better not let her see you . 
She'll be awfully angry to think you got up for us . 
You know what she said . 
I passed up the stairs , and he followed . 
I'll only open the door and see that the fire's all right , sir , he said . 
I placed my burden gently on the sofa , away from the light of the fire . 
You'll let me light the candles , sir ? Not a farthing dip , Thomas . 
Miss Mansel may wake any moment . 
You can come and open the coach house door , if you like . 
You can get to it from the inside , can't you ? Because you're not to go out of doors . 
Oh , yes , thank you , sir . 
Two minutes later the car was in the garage , and Thomas and I were making our way back past the kitchens . 
Outside the Cromwell room I stopped . 
You may take Miss Mansel's dressing case to her room and see to her fire , then you are to go back to bed . 
It won't take a minute to serve you , sir . 
Thomas , you are to do as I say . 
It was very good of you to come down . 
Oh Yes ? I forgot to tell you , sir , there's a temporary maid will wait on Miss Mansel in the morning , sir . 
Susan's had to go away sudden . 
I think her father's ill , sir . 
As I closed the door of the Cromwell room So I'm Miss Mansel , said Eve . 
Quite right , my dear , said I. One of our party my cousin , in fact . 
When did you wake ? Just as you were lifting me out of the car . 
I took off my cap and shook its snow into the fire . 
I uncover , said I. In other words , I take my hat off to you . 
Eve , you are an artist . 
I only wish I were . 
Why ? I'd paint you here , now , just as you are . 
I know I look awful . 
I had put her upon the sofa , but she had moved from there , and was sitting on the hearth in front of the great fire . 
She was in evening dress , and might have returned , as I had , from a ball . 
Her dark hair had worked loose under the weight of the rug , and was lying thick about her smooth shoulders . 
Save in her face , she wore no jewels , but two great brown stars smiled at me from either side of a straight nose . 
The lips were red now , and her throat soft and white as her shoulders . 
I gazed down at her . 
No jewels , you see , Adam , she said suddenly . 
I'm afraid you've struck a loser this time . 
You'll have to stick to the Great North Road in future . 
No jewels ? said I. You have a wealth of hair , and what about the pearls behind your lips ? They're worth a king's ransom . 
They're not made to take out , though , and there's no gold with them . 
She put up the red mouth and showed two rows of teeth , white and even . 
Tempt me no more , said I. Oh , Eve , you're just as bad as ever . 
After all this time , too . 
I hesitate to mention supper , because you look so lovely sitting there , but She stretched out a warm hand , and I lifted her to her feet . 
For a second I held the slight fingers . 
Tell me one thing , said I. Is there anyone who doesn't love you ? The fingers slipped away . 
Yes , stacks of people . 
You wouldn't like me a bit , only I'm not myself to night . 
See ? New Year's Eve . 
Thomas thinks you're Jill Miss Mansel . 
To the temporary maid in the morning , too . 
As for breakfast oh , you and my high collar must get me through breakfast and out of here and over to Steeple Abbas somehow . 
Funny , your telling Falcon to go to 'The Three Bulls . 
It's where we were making for . 
I'd taken a room there . 
By Jove , said I. Then , when I went back with Jill , they thought it was you arriving . 
And I related what had occurred . 
When I had finished , she threw back her head and laughed . 
Then you're not a robber , after all , Adam ? Certainly not . 
But why ? I mean , assuming the exchange is a fair one . 
Fair ? said I. It's exquisite . 
Why , just to look at you's as good as a feast , and Which reminds me I'm awfully hungry . 
Oh , no , no , I didn't mean that , Adam , dear , I didn't really . 
And my companion leaned against the chimney piece , laughing helplessly . 
That's torn it , said I , laughing too . 
And now , said Eve , recovering , take off your coat . 
You must be so tired . 
I drew my pumps out of the great pockets , and threw the coat off me and across the back of a chair . 
Then I kicked off my great high rubber boots , stepped into my pumps , and looked ruefully at my dress trousers . 
They're only a little creased , said the girl . 
You must forgive them , said I. Jill wouldn't have minded , would she ? Jill wouldn't have mattered . 
I shall never forget it , said I. Then I picked up her little shoes and stooped to fit them on to their feet . 
You are looking after me nicely , Adam , she said , laying a hand on my shoulder to keep her balance . 
I straightened my back and looked at her . 
My dear , I said , I oh , heavens , let's see what we've got for supper . 
And I turned hurriedly to the dishes in front of the fire . 
When I looked round , she was lighting the candles . 
You mustn't go to bed at once , I said , pushing back my chair . 
It's bad for the digestion . 
Sit by the fire a little , as you did before . 
I'll give you a cigarette . 
I settled her amid cushions , put out the candles , and struck the red fire into flames . 
But where will you sit , Adam ? I shall lean elegantly against the chimney piece and tell you a fairy story . 
I'm all for the story , but I think you'd better be a child and sit on the hearthrug , too . 
A child , said I , sitting down by her side . 
My dear , do you realize that I'm as old as the Cotswold Hills . 
And so am I. No , I said firmly , certainly not . 
Goddesses are immortal and their youth dies not . 
I suppose I ought to get up and curtsey . 
If you do , I shall have to rise and make you a leg , so please don't . 
For a moment she smiled into the fire . 
Then I wonder if two people have ever sat here before , as we're sitting now ? Many a time , said I. Runaway couples , you know . 
I expect the old wood walls think we're another pair . 
They can't see , though . 
That's why they hear so well . 
And here's another to rnake them smile . 
Wise , whimsical , fatherly smiles , especially wise . 
They think we're lovers , remember . 
Well , the sooner they find out their mis Hush ! said I. Walls love lovers . 
Have pity and don't undeceive them . 
It'd break the poor old fellows' hearts . 
That one's looking rather black already . 
She laughed in spite of herself . 
Then But they haven't got any hearts to break . 
The best in the world , too . 
Now you must make up for it . 
Chaste and beautiful one , dost thou realize that at this rate we shall reach Gretna next Tuesday week ? So soon , Jack ? languishingly . 
Glorious , said I that is , aye , mistress . 
Remember , I have six spare axles disguised as golf clubs . 
The angle of his chaise suggested that one of the hind wheels was , to put it mildly , somewhat out of the true . 
The fact that , before we started , I myself withdrew its linchpin goes to support this theory . 
My poor father ! Master Adam , I almost find it in my heart to hate you . 
Believe me , fair but haughty , the old fool has taken no hurt . 
Distant as we were , I could hear his oaths of encouragement , while the post boys sawed as they had never sawed before . 
From the way they were doing it , I shouldn't think they ever had . 
But they will soon procure a new linchpin . 
Is that right ? And , oh , Adam , they may be here any moment . 
Not so , my poppet . 
To get a linchpin , they must find a smith . 
All the smiths within a radius of thirty miles are drunk . 
A man has to think of all these little things . 
I say , we're giving the walls the time of their life , aren't we ? Have another cigarette ? After which I must go to bed . 
As you please , Mistress Eve , said I , reaching for a live coal to give her a light . 
For a little space we sat silent , watching the play of the flames . 
Then she spoke slowly , half her thoughts elsewhere You never told me your fairy tale , Adam . 
Anyway , one doesn't tell fairy tales to fairies , and and I'd rather you watched the fire . 
He'll tell you a finer story than ever I could . 
At least Yes ? Well , he's a bold fellow , the fire . 
He'll say things that I can't , Eve . 
He'll praise , thank , bless you al in a flash . 
See what he says for a moment . 
Remember he's speaking for me . 
Praise , thank , bless , she repeated dreamily . 
Does he ever ask anything in return ? Never , said I. For a full moment she sat gazing into the flames . 
Then she flung her cigarette into the grate and jumped to her feet before I had time to help her . 
Bed time , she cried . 
Mine , at any rate . 
I'll see you to your room , said I , lighting one of the candles . 
Then I picked up her grey fur coat and laid it over my arm . 
I looked up and across at her , standing straight by the other side of the hearth , the leaping flames lighting her tumbled hair . 
One foot was on the kerb , and her left hand hitching her dress in the front a little , as women do . 
The other she held , palm downwards to the blaze , warming it . 
I marked the red glow between its slight fingers , making them rosy . 
Her eyes still gazed into the fire . 
It was another brilliant day , and at five minutes past twelve we ran into Steeple Abbas . 
Eve was sitting in front by my side this time . 
As we turned into the main street , I slowed down . 
Outside 'The Three Bulls' stood the limousine , weather beaten a little and its nickel work dull , but seemingly all right . 
In the middle of the road stood a chauffeur , his cap pushed back and a hand to his head . 
As we approached , he looked away from the little writing block and stared up at the signboard of the inn . 
When he heard the car approaching , he made for the pavement , turning a puzzled face in our direction . 
At that moment I heard Jill's voice . 
Berry , Berry , I can hear a car coming . 
There was not a moment to lose . 
Quick as a flash I drew alongside the limousine , which stood on our left between us and the hotel . 
Then I stopped , stood up , leaned across my companion and opened the big car's door . 
Good bye , dear , I said . 
The next moment she had changed cars . 
To thrust her rug and dressing case after her was the work of a second . 
For a moment I held her hand to my lips . 
Then I shut the door , slipped back into my seat , and drove on and in to the kerb . 
As I pulled up , Jill came running down the steps of the inn . 
Then you got home all right , Boy ? Before I had time to answer , Berry appeared in the doorway . 
Aha , said he , the brave's return ! Skaul ! You are late , but never mind . 
Skaul again , my pathfinder . 
I thought of you when I was going to bed . 
Was the snow hut comfortable ? I hope you didn't find that coat too much ? It isn't really cold , you know . 
Now , when I was in Patagonia Are you all ready ? said I. I'm just coming in to warm my hands . 
I followed Jill up the steps . 
In the doorway I turned and took off my hat . 
The chauffeur was starting up the limousine . 
And Eve was leaning forward , looking out of the open window . 
As I smiled , she kissed her hand to me . 
Ten minutes later we left 'The Three Bulls . 
I had thrown my gauntlets on to the front seat before I entered the inn . 
As I drew on the right one , I felt a sheet of paper in its cuff . 
I plucked it out , wondering . 
It had been torn from the writing block , and bore the message I had written for Falcon the night before . 
The signature was Evelyn Fairie , and underneath had been added , Castle Charing , Somerset . 
I slipped it into my pocket and started the car . 
And how did Jilly get on ? I said abstractedly , as we rolled down the street . 
Oh , Boy , she cried , it was so funny . 
I'm sure they took me for somebody else . 
There was a lovely big room all ready and everybody kept bowing and calling me 'my lady . 
They couldn't understand my connection with the others at first and when they asked about the car , and I said it had gone back to Fallow , they nearly fainted . 
They were going to make out my bill separately , too , only Berry And you didn't enlighten them ? I couldn't make out what was wrong till I was undressing . 
And the real one never turned up ? I don't think she can have . 
The landlord stammered something about 'your ladyship , as I said 'Good bye . 
How strange , said I. Jill chattered on all the way to Fallow . 
Fortunately I remembered to tell her about the new chambermaid . 
I was rather uneasy about the girl , as a matter of fact . 
She must have seen Eve properly . 
But my luck was holding , for on our arrival we found that Susan had returned . 
The following day , January the second , after breakfast , a wire for Jonah arrived . 
When he had read it That's curious , he said . 
I wonder how he knew we were here ? Who's it from ? said Jill . 
Harry Fairie , the man I met at Pau last Easter . 
Wants us to go over to his place in Somerset before we go back to town . 
All of us ? Apparently . 
'You and party , the wire says . 
I believe I met his sister once , said I. You wouldn't forget her if you had , said Jonah . 
Where did you meet her ? said Daphne . 
I seem to associate her with winter sports . 
Switzerland ? said my sister . 
What year ? Nineteen twelve ? I walked to the door and opened it . 
If I told you , I said , you wouldn't believe me . 
CHAPTER V THE JUDGEMENT OF PARIS I suppose , said Daphne . 
I suppose you think you're funny . 
Her husband regarded his cigarette with a frown . 
Not at all , he replied . 
My mind is made up . 
This correspondence must now cease . 
For myself , as bread winner and Never did a day's work in your life , said Jonah . 
Of course he's going , said I , looking up . 
Only what as ? Why not himself ? said Jill . 
M , no , said I. We must find something out of the common . 
I want our party to be one of the features of the ball . 
Would it be asking you too much to shut your face ? said Berry . 
Nobody wants to speak to you . 
Nobody Could he go as a cook , d'you think ? said Daphne . 
A chef thing , I mean . 
They had cooks , of course . 
Or a wine butler ? They must have had Or a birthright ? said Berry . 
We know they had birthrights . 
And I'd sooner be a birthright than a wine cooler any day . 
Besides , Jonah could go as a mess of pottage . 
There's an idea for you . 
Talk about originality ! Originality ! said his wife contemptuously . 
Studied imbecility , you mean . 
It's in the blood , said Jonah . 
One of his uncles was a Master in Lunacy . 
I laid down my pen and leaned back in my chair . 
It comes to this , said I. Whatever he goes as , he'll play the fool . 
Am I right , sir ? Yes , said every one . 
Consequently he must be given a part which he can clown without queering the whole scene . 
What d'you mean , talking about parts and scenes ? said Berry . 
I thought it was going to be a ball . 
So it is , said his wife . 
But people are taking parties , and every party's going to represent some tale or picture or play or a bit of it . 
I've told you all this once . 
Twice , corrected her husband . 
Once last night with eclat , and once this morning with your mouth full , Jilly's told me three times , and the others once each . 
I'm beginning to get the hang of the thing . 
His voice subsided into the incoherent muttering , which immediately precedes slumber . 
In silence Jonah handed Daphne his cigarette . 
By stretching out an arm , as she lay on the sofa , my sister was just able to apply the burning tobacco to the lobe of her husband's ear . 
With a yell the latter flung his feet from the club kerb and sat up in his chair . 
When he turned , Jonah was placidly smoking in the distance , while Daphne met her victim's accusing eye with a disdainful stare , her hands empty in her lap . 
The table , at which I was writing , shook with Jill's suppressed merriment . 
The stake's upstairs , said Berry bitterly . 
Or would you rather gouge out my eyes ? Will you flay me alive ? Because if so , I'll go and get the knives and things . 
What about after tea ? Or would you rather get it over ? You shouldn't be so tiresome , said Daphne . 
Berry shook his head sorrowfully . 
The noise you hear is not the bath running away . 
My heart is bleeding , sister . 
Better sear that , too , said his wife , reaching for Jonah's cigarette . 
It was just then that my eyes , wandering round the library , lighted on a copy of Don Quixote . 
The very thing , said I suddenly . 
Berry can go as Sancho Panza . 
The others stared at me . 
Berry turned to his wife . 
You and Jill run along , dear , and pad the boxroom . 
Jonah and I'll humour him till you're ready . 
Sancho Panza ? said Daphne . 
But we're going to do The Caliph's Wedding out of the Arabian Nights . 
Let's drop the Eastern touch , I said , getting up from the table . 
It's sure to be overdone . 
Give them a page of Cervantes instead . 
Jonah can be Don Quixote . 
You'll make a priceless Dorothea in boy's clothes , with your hair down your back . 
Jilly can be Wait a minute . 
I stepped to the shelf and picked out the old quarto . 
After a moment's search Here you are , said I. Daughter of Don Diego . 
Sancho Panza strikes her when he's going the rounds at night . 
'She was beautiful as a thousand pearls , with her hair inclosed under a net of gold and green silk . 
And I can be the Squire of the Wood , complete with false nose . 
I rather like the idea , said Daphne , only Wait till I find the description of Dorothea , said I , turning over the pages . 
Read that , my dear , and I handed her the book . 
In silence my sister read the famous lines . 
Then she laid the book down , and slipped an arm round my neck . 
Boy , she said , you flatter me , but I can sit on my hair . 
Then and there it was decided to illustrate Cervantes . 
And Sancho can wear his governor's dress , said Jill . 
Quarter of an hour back , said Berry , I told you that it was no good ordering the wild horses , because nothing would induce me to go . 
Since then my left ear has been burned , as with a hot iron . 
Under the circumstances it is hardly likely that Oh dear , said Daphne wearily . 
I reached for the telephone and picked up the receiver . 
Exchange , I said , there is here a fat swab . 
What ? Swab , said I. I'll spell it . 
S for soldier , W , A for apple , B for Baldwin . 
Have you a complaint to make ? That's it , said I About this swab . 
You see , he won't go to the ball . 
His ticket has been bought , his role chosen , his face passed over . 
And yet Mayfair supervisor , said a voice . 
That's done it , said I. I mean er Supervisor . 
I want to complain about our swab here . 
Can you tell me what's wrong with it ? I think its liver must be out of order . 
I'll report it to the engineers . 
They'll send a man down to morrow . 
I replaced the receiver and crossed to where Berry was sitting , nursing his wounded ear . 
They're going to report you to the engineers , I said shortly . 
A man will be down to morrow . 
As for you , said my brother in law , I take it your solicitors will accept service . 
Toss pots , my ears are to be burned and foul aspersions cast upon a liver , till then spotless . 
Am I discouraged ? No. Emboldened rather . 
In short , I will attend the rout . 
At last , sighed Daphne . 
I ordered the supper yesterday . 
We're sharing a table with the Scarlets . 
But you needn't have burned my ear . 
Only means some one was talking about you , said Daphne . 
Why did you say you weren't going ? A passion for perversity , said I. Berry stole a cautious glance at the time . 
The hands stood at a quarter past three . 
A slow grin spread over his countenance . 
Didn't you say something about a sacred concert ? he said . 
Good Heavens , cried Daphne , jumping up . 
I forgot all about it . 
It begins at thr Arrested by her husband's seraphic smile , she swung round and looked at the clock . 
Sweet are the uses of perversity , he said , with inimitable inflection . 
For a moment his wife eyed him , speechless with in indignation . 
Then I hope you've got ear ache , she said . 
Berry settled himself among the cushions . 
I have , he said , But back ache would have been worse . 
I sank back in my seat with an injured air . 
The coach swayed slightly , as it rattled over the points . 
The train was gathering speed . 
In the far corner of the compartment the brooch of a gay green hat winked at me over the top of The Daily Glass . 
That's a nice thing , said I. What ? said the girl , laying down her paper . 
Only the train's run through the station I was going to get out at . 
How tiresome for you ! There are consolations . 
You would never have opened your small red mouth , but for my exclamation . 
And I should never have exclaimed , but for It's very rude to make personal remarks . 
Only when the person's plain or the remark rude . 
What are you going to do ? Obey orders , I suppose . 
said I , pointing to the door . 
'Wait until the train stops ? I think so , said I , looking at the flashing hedgerows . 
You see , I've given up acting for the pictures . 
Otherwise , I should adjust my handcuffs , run along the foot board , and dive in the direction of the nearest pond . 
While I ? Lay perfectly still . 
You see , I should be carrying you in my teeth . 
The girl was leaning back in her corner , laughing helplessly . 
It's all very fine to laugh , said I. How would you like to be carried a county and a half beyond your station ? You should have asked before you got in . 
Asked ? said I. The only person I didn't ask was the traffic superintendent himself . 
They said he was away on his holiday . 
They can't have understood what you said . 
At the same time Here another station roared by . 
I was too late to see the name . 
I shall swear in a minute , said I. I can feel it coming . 
I turned to her open mouthed . 
She was consulting a wrist watch and did not see the look on my face . 
Friars Rory was where I was bound for . 
We had run through the station ten minutes ago . 
I knew the place well . 
I had just time to recover , when she looked up . 
We're late now , she said . 
I expect that's why we're going so fast . 
You know , I said , I don't believe you asked either . 
If this was the right train ? Well , I've used it , going down to hunt , for two seasons . 
Besides , I told a porter Can't have understood what you said , said I , producing my cigarette case . 
Will you smoke ? There's plenty of time . 
What d'you mean ? I was going to Rory , too . 
My dear , if this train really stops there , there must be the very deuce of a hairpin corner coming , or else we're on the Inner Circle . 
We've passed it once , you know , about nine miles back , I should think . 
We roared between the platforms . 
Wonderful how they put these engines along , isn't it ? But my companion was staring out of the window . 
The next moment she swung round and looked at me wildly . 
Gravely I offered her a cigarette . 
She waved me away impatiently . 
Have we really passed Rory ? she said . 
Ages ago , said I. Your porter can't possibly have under She stamped a small foot , bright in its patent leather shoe . 
Aren't you going to do anything ? she demanded . 
I am already composing a letter to the absent traffic superintendent which will spoil his holiday . 
I shall say that , in spite of the fact that the dark lady with the eyes and the seal skin coat asked the porter with the nose Idiot . 
There was trouble in her great eyes . 
The small foot tapped the floor nervously . 
One gloved hand gripped the arm of her seat . 
I could have sworn the red lips quivered a moment ago . 
Lass , I said , is it important that you should be at Friars Rory this morning ? She looked up quickly . 
Then , with a half laugh , I did want to rather , she said . 
But it can't be helped . 
No , you're not , said I sturdily , patting her hand . 
I know what it is to have a sick horse . 
Buck up , lass ! We'll be there within the hour . 
What d'you mean ? she said , feeling in her bag for a handkerchief . 
I have a plan , said I mysteriously . 
Can't you find it ? She felt in the pocket of her coat and turned to the bag again . 
I'm afraid my maid must have I took a spare handkerchief from my breast pocket . 
Would you care to honour me by using this to er Go on , she said , taking it with a smile . 
To brush away some of the prettiest tears She laughed exquisitely , put the handkerchief to her eyes , and then smiled her thanks over the white cambric . 
I let down the window nearest me and put out my head . 
A long look assured me that we were nearing Ringley . 
But what are you going to do ? said the girl . 
Wait , said I over my shoulder . 
Again I put out my head . 
In the distance I could see red houses Ringley . 
I put up my right hand and felt for the chain . 
As I did so , there seemed to be less weigh on the train a strange feeling . 
I hesitated , the wind flying in my face . 
We were not going so fast so evenly . 
Yet , if we had run through Shy Junction , surely we were not going to stop at The next moment I saw what it was . 
We were the last coach , and there was a gap , widening slowly , between us and the rest of the train . 
I took in my head to find my companion clasping my arm and crying . 
You mustn't , you mustn't . 
You're awfully good , but It's all right , I said . 
We're in the Ringley slip . 
And we're going to stop there ? Probably with an unconscionable jerk a proper full stop . 
None of your commas for a slip . 
But there ! I might have known . 
It's a long train that breaks no journey , and there's many a slip 'twixt Town and the North of England . 
If there isn't a train back soon , I'm going to charter a car . 
I take it you know your Macbeth ? She laughed merrily . 
I looked at her appreciatively , sitting opposite and perched , as I was , on one of the compartment's dividing arms . 
Sunshine after rain , I murmured . 
Sweet she looked in her gay green hat and her long seal skin coat . 
Beneath this , the green of a skirt above the slim silk stockings and the bright shoes . 
Gloves and bag on the seat by her side . 
The face was eager , clear cut , its features regular . 
But only the great eyes mattered . 
Perhaps , also , the mouth You're a kind man , she said slowly . 
And it was sweet of you to think of pulling the cord . 
But I should have been awfully upset , if you had . 
The coach ran alongside of the platform and stopped with a jerk that flung me backwards and my lady on to my chest . 
I sat up with my arms full of fur coat , while its owner struggled to regain her feet . 
Infants in arms need not be paid for , said I , setting her upright with a smile . 
I hope the station master saw you , or he mightn't believe Where were we ? Oh , I know . 
You'd have been upset , would you ? More upset than this ? Oh , much , she said , her eyebrows raised above a faint smile . 
You see , then I should have been upset properly . 
As she spoke , she laid a hand on my shoulder , to steady herself , while she peered into the mirror above my head . 
I looked round and up at the smiling face , six inches away . 
Then I wish I had , said I. One hand was settling her plumed hat . 
Without looking down , she set the other firmly upon my chin , and turned my face round and away . 
Open the door and hand me out nicely , she said . 
I rose and put on my hat . 
Do you ever play the piano ? I said suddenly . 
Why ? I was thinking of the fingers . 
You have such an exquisite touch . 
The evident pleasure the chestnut mare evinced at her mistress's arrival was a real tribute to personality . 
Also the vet's morning report was more satisfactory . 
It seemed that Dear One was mending . 
Greatly comforted , my lady let me give her lunch at the Duck Inn . 
Afterwards there being no train till four o'clock she came with me to choose a spaniel pup . 
It was to purchase him that I had started for Friars Rory that sunshiny day . 
What shall you call him ? she said , as we made our way to the kennels . 
I really don't know , said I. What about Seal skin ? Must be something in memory of to day . 
Then Why not Non Stop ? I know , I said . 
Three black and white urchins gambolled about us , flapping ears , wagging ridiculous tails , uncertainly stumbling about upon baby legs . 
Oh , you darlings , said the girl , stooping among them , caressing , in turn caressed . 
She raised a radiant face to me . 
However will you choose which you'll have ? I leaned against the wall and regarded the scene before me . 
I like the big one best , I said . 
The big one ? she said , standing up . 
Aren't they all the same The one on its hind legs , said I. With the big eyes . 
Ah , she said , smiling . 
But that's not for sale , I'm afraid . 
Besides , its temper's very uncertain , as you know . 
The spaniel is renowned for its affectionate disposition . 
And what dog wouldn't turn , if it was put in the wrong train ? Besides , your coat's so silky . 
But I'm sure my ears don't droop , and I've never had distemper . 
You don't know Don't I ? By A Long Chalk , out of The Common's good enough for most people . 
Oh , you are hopeless ! she said , laughing . 
She turned to the scrambling pups . 
Who's for a mad master ? she said . 
She stood regarding us for a moment , her massive head a little on one side . 
Then a great smile spread over her countenance , and she started to sway in our direction , wagging a greeting with her hind quarters , as bulldogs do . 
Two of the puppies loped off to meet her . 
The long suffering way in which she permitted them to mouth her argued that she was accustomed to being the kindly butt of their exuberance . 
The third turned to follow his fellows , hesitated , caught my lady's eye , and rushed back to his new found friend . 
That's the one for me , said I. Give me good judgment . 
I shall call him Paris . 
Off with the old love and on with the new . 
I'm sure he's faithless , and I expect the bulldog's been awfully kind to him , haven't you , dear ? She patted the snuffling beauty . 
Besides , I gave him the glad eye , which wasn't fair . 
I'll bet that's how Venus got the apple , if the truth were known . 
Any way , I'm going to choose him for choosing you . 
We shall get on well . 
Juno , Juno ! cried a woman's voice from the house . 
Immediately the bulldog started and turned towards the doorway . 
What did I say ? said I. Something seemed to tell me you were a goddess , when When ? When you were upset this morning . 
I saw you very close then , you see . 
Well ! What sort of weather have you been having in Olympus lately ? And how's Vulcan ? I suppose Cupid must be getting quite a big boy ? She laughed . 
You wouldn't know him if you saw him , she said . 
When does he go to the 'Varsity ? Or shan't you send him ? He's there now . 
Doing awfully well , too ! Taken a first in the Honour School of Love , I suppose ? Is he as good a shot as ever ? He's a very good son . 
He's never given me a day's trouble since he was born . 
I don't think he will , either , not for a long time , any way , Thoughtfully I pulled on my gloves . 
Then My dear , said I , for that boast you may shortly expect a judgment . 
More judgments ? she cried with a laugh , turning to look at me , the straight brews raised in mockery . 
Which will cost you more , my fair Olympian , than a glad eye . 
The train was passing through the outskirts of London . 
A bare ten minutes more , and we should arrive . 
I looked anxiously at the girl , wondering where , when , how I should see her again . 
For the last half hour we had spoken but little . 
She had seemed sleepy , and I had begged her to rest . 
Dreamily she had thanked me , saying that she had had little sleep the night before . 
Then the eyes had smiled gently and disappeared . 
It was almost dark now , so swift had been the passing of the winter's day . 
Lights shone and blinked out of the darkness . 
Another train roared by , and we slackened speed . 
Slowly we crawled over a bridge spanning mean streets . 
One could not but mark the bustling scene below . 
The sudden din compelled attention . 
I looked down upon the writhing traffic , the glistening roadway , the pavements crowded with hurrying , jostling forms . 
An over lighted public house made the cheap shops seem ill lit , poorer still . 
Its dirty splendour dominated everything even the tall trams took on a lesser light . 
I was glad when we had left the spot behind . 
It would not do after the country side . 
It occurred to me that , but a little space back some seventy rolling years here also had stretched fair green fields . 
Perchance the very ones poor dying Falstaff had babbled of . 
We slunk past an asylum a long mass , dark , sinister . 
By this even the trams seemed to hasten . 
I could just hear their thin song , as they slid forward . 
Already I was half way to depression . 
Resolutely I turned , giving the window my shoulder . 
My Lady had not stirred . 
Wistfully I regarded her closed eyes . 
In five minutes we should be in , and there were things I wanted to say . 
A smile crept into the gentle face . 
Go on , she said quietly . 
I was wondering , goddess , if I should ever see you again . 
Oh , probably ! The world's awfully small . 
Not for some time , though . 
I leave for Cannes to morrow , to join my people . 
You must have heard of it . 
Where the weather comes from . 
Where it stays , you mean , I growled , as the rising wind flung a handful of raindrops against the windows . 
For a moment I sat silent , looking out into the night , thinking . 
Except for a luncheon , to morrow was free . 
And I could cut that . 
A network of shining rails showed that the terminus was at hand . 
I turned to my lady . 
Then we shall meet again to morrow , I said gravely . 
I have to go down to Dover , too . 
What for ? This suspiciously . 
I rose and took up my hat . 
Another dog , I said shortly . 
She broke into silvery merriment . 
At length Nonsense , she said , rising . 
Not at all , said I. The Dover dogs are famous . 
Sea dogs , perhaps , she murmured , setting one knee on the cushions to look into the glass . 
Well , you've been awfully kind , and I'm very grateful . 
And now she swung round good bye . 
She held out a slim hand . 
The train drew up to the platform . 
Good bye ? said I , taking the cool fingers . 
And I hope you'll get a good dog at Dover , she said , smiling . 
I shall think of you . 
You see , I'm going by Folkestone and Boulogne . 
In silence I bent over the slight fingers . 
Then I turned to the girl . 
You know , I said , the Folkestone dogs . 
At last , said Berry , as the car swung into line in Kensington Gore , about a furlong from the doors of the Albert Hall . 
A short hour and a quarter , and we shall be there . 
Can anyone tell me why I consented to come ? To please yourself , said Daphne shortly . 
Wrong , said her husband . 
The correct answer will appear in our next issue . 
Five million consolation prizes will be awarded to those who , in the opinion of Have you got the tickets ? said his wife . 
Tickets ! said Berry contemptuously . 
I've had to put my handkerchief in my shoe , and my cigarette case has lodged slightly to the right and six inches below my heart . 
You'll have to make a ring round me , if I want to smoke . 
Have you got the tickets ? said Daphne . 
My dear , I distinctly remember giving them to A perfect shriek went up from Daphne and Jill . 
The footman slipped on to the step and opened the door . 
Did you call , madam ? Yes , said Berry . 
Give Mrs. Pleydell the tickets . 
Our party was an undoubted success . 
Jonah looked wonderful , Daphne and Jill priceless . 
With her magnificent hair unbound , her simple boy's dress , her little rough shoes at the foot of legs bare to the knee , my sister was a glorious sight . 
And an exquisite Jill , in green and white and gold , ruffled it with the daintiest air and a light in her grey eyes that shamed her jewellery . 
A brilliant make up , coupled with the riotous extravagance of his dress , carried him half way . 
But the pomp of carriage , the circumstance of gait which he assumed , the manner of the man beggar description . 
Cervantes would have wept with delight , could he have witnessed it . 
The Squire of the Wood passed . 
And that somewhat listlessly , till he saw my lady . 
That was just after supper , and she was sitting on the edge of a box , scanning her programme . 
All lovely , dressed as Potpourri . 
You were right , said I. The world is small . 
We floated into the music . 
But , then I learned that this morning . 
Do you like my dress ? Love it . 
Where did it come from ? She mentioned a French firm . 
Ah ! said I , Give me the judgment of Paris . 
CHAPTER VI WHICH TO ADORE I suppose you think I'm going to swear , said Berry defiantly . 
Jill and Daphne clasped one another and shrieked with laughter . 
Berry stopped addressing the ball and gazed at them . 
Go on ! he said , nodding sardonic approval . 
Goad me in the direction of insanity . 
That's right , my boy . 
Make the most of your time . 
For you I have already devised a lingering death . 
Look here , old chap , said I , there's some mistake . 
I said I'd give you a stroke a hole , not a divot a stroke . 
Hullo ! he said , making a new bunker , old man ? Good idea . 
Only a cleek's no good . 
Send the boy for a turf cutter . 
Quicker in the long run . 
My brother in law regarded us scornfully . 
Then What I want to know , he said , is how the Punch office can spare you both at the same time . 
Daphne , Berry and I were playing a three ball match . 
while Jill and Jonah who had sprained his wrist were walking round with us . 
Berry is rather good really , but just now he was wearing a patch over one eye , which made him hopeless . 
It was glorious spring weather on the coast of Devon . 
A little village is Feth . 
Only the grey church , set up on the heights , half a mile distant , endures the tempests . 
The wind passes over Feth and is gone . 
A busy fellow , the wind . 
He has no time to stop . 
That lingers with Feth all day , decking the place gloriously . 
It is good to be a pet of the sun . 
So are the gardens of Feth bright with flowers , the white walls dazzling , the stream , that scrambles over brown pebbles to the little bay , merry water . 
Except for the natives , we had the place to ourselves . 
But then Feth sees few visitors at any season . 
Sixteen miles from a station is its salvation . 
True , there is Mote Abbey hard by a fine old place with an ancient deer park and deep , rolling woods . 
Ruins , too , we had heard . 
A roofless quire , a few grass grown yards of cloister and the like . 
Only the Abbot's kitchen was at all preserved . 
We were going to see them before we left . 
We were told that in summer at the house itself parties assembled . 
But the family was away now . 
The round of golf proceeded . 
How many is that ? said Berry , as he sliced into the sea . 
Seven , said I. Not seven into the sea , you know . 
You've only hit three into the sea altogether . 
Isn't he clever with his sums ? Here , give me another ball . 
Where's Henry ? I handed him the last named a favourite cleek . 
The caddie had gone to collect the flotsam . 
Ladies and gentlemen , with your kind permission I shall now proceed to beat the sphere into the sky . 
Of course , he didn't show it . 
Berry doesn't give things away . 
Ah ! he said pleasantly . 
I'm beginning to get used to playing with one eye . 
You know , all the time I er seem to see two balls . 
If you said you'd been seeing two holes all day , I could believe it , said Jonah . 
Anyone might think so from the way you've been playing . 
placed me beyond the pricks of criticism . 
The venom , brother , which you would squirt upon me , bespatters but yourself . 
Boy , place me the globe upon yon pinnacle of sand . 
Now indicate to me the distant pin . 
Do I see it ? No. Natheless , I say nameless it beckons me . 
And now give me yes , give me Douglas . 
The caddie handed him a brassie . 
He had caddied for Berry before . 
Don't breathe for a moment , anyone , said Daphne . 
Her husband frowned and silently sliced into the sea . 
How many balls did you see that time ? said Jonah . 
Three , said I. That's why he's going to pawn his clubs . 
It was after luncheon , and Daphne was already asleep . 
Jill and Jonah drooped comfortably in huge chairs . 
Berry sprawled upon a sofa . 
I suppose we outrage what you call your sense of decency . 
Incidentally , you also irritate me , because I shall have to go round alone . 
Friend , your foul egoism leaves me unmoved . 
Go forth and harry your balls . 
I am about to slumber like a little child . 
Do you think I shall dream , brother ? Probably , said I. About fried fish shops . 
Jill shuddered in her chair , and Berry sat up . 
After that most offensive allusion , he said pompously , I have no option but to ask you to withdraw . 
The touts' room is downstairs . 
Before leaving you may give me what cigarettes you have in your case . 
Then I'm afraid I don't approve of ah children smoking , I said , moving towards the door . 
Besides , a little exercise 'll do you good . 
There is a box in my room you know where that is ? Where ? snarled my brother in law . 
I put my head round the door and looked at him . 
Immediately above the touts' , said I. The breeze of the morning had died away , and though the month was the month of April , it might have been a midsummer afternoon . 
I started on my solitary round , well enough pleased , really , to be alone . 
The weather was excellent company . 
My clubs I carried myself . 
The fourth hole lies in a little valley , under the lee of a steep , rock studded hill , whose other side falls sheer into the tumbling waves . 
On an idle impulse I left my clubs at the fifth tee and scrambled on up the green slope to gaze upon and over the sea below . 
I have a weakness for high places on the edges of England . 
I cannot match the dignity of them . 
Where yellow sands invite , these do not even stoop to challenge . 
They are superb , demigods , the Royalty of the coast . 
As I breasted the summit , I heard a child's voice reading aloud . 
And the people told him of all the splendid things which were in the city , and about the King , and what a pretty Princess the King's daughter was . 
'Where can one get to see her ? asked the soldier . 
'I should like to see her , thought the soldier . 
The reading came from beyond and below me . 
I fell on my knees , crawled forward , and peered over the top of a slab of rock . 
On the warm grass , twenty paces from the edge of the cliff , sat a little boy , his brown knees propping a book . 
By his side , facing the sea , lay a girl of nineteen or twenty years , her hands clasped behind her head . 
She seemed to be asleep . 
And all his friends knew him again , and cared very much for him indeed . 
Once he thought to himself , It is a very strange thing that one cannot get to see the Princess . 
'It is midnight , certainly , said the soldier 'but I should very much like to see the Princess , only for one little moment . 
Here the child shaded his eyes and looked down at the sands of a creek , quarter of a mile away . 
There they are , he exclaimed , dropping the book and scrambling to his feet . 
He waved delightedly to two specks on the sands below . 
Then Good bye , Cousin Lallie , he cried . 
I'll be home by six , and tore away down the green slope like a mad thing . 
But his cousin never waked . 
A skirt of grey blue tweed , and the fresh white of a blouse beneath a smart coat to match . 
Her small grey hat lay on the grass by her side . 
Her brews were straight , and on the red mouth was a faint smile . 
I looked away over the glittering waves . 
Then I came quietly down , picked up Hans Andersen , and took my seat by her side . 
I found the place and continued the story aloud And the dog was outside the door directly , and , before the soldier thought it , came back with the Princess . 
She sat upon the dog's back and slept and every one could see she was a real Princess , for she was so lovely . 
The soldier could not refrain from kissing her , for he was a thorough soldier . 
Here the girl stirred , opened her eyes , saw me , and sat up . 
Who on earth she began . 
It's all right , said I. It's only a fairy tale . 
Besides , I'm not a soldier , although I don't see How long has this been going on ? Only just begun , said I. Listen . 
Then the dog ran back with the Princess . 
But when morning came Where's Roy ? He had to go and join his friends , said I. Fortunately I happened to be here to take his place . 
He asked me to say he should be home not later than six . 
Where were we ? Oh , I know . 
But when morning came She raised a slim hand for me to stop . 
Then she clasped her knees and regarded me with her head on one side . 
A bad end , she said laconically . 
A good beginning , anyway , said I. I might be a sorceress . 
Or an adventuress , for all you know . 
Or a Princess , said I. What made you do this ? I'll tell you , said I. Whilst you were asleep , a little smile was playing round your lips . 
And this smile told me that he had two twin sisters who dwelt In your eyes . 
And , like the soldier , I wanted to see them , Princess . 
Well , you have now , haven't you ? I looked at her critically . 
I'm afraid they must be out , said I. In spite of herself she laughed . 
No , there they are . 
Besides What ? The little smile said he had a big brother living in your heart . 
Yes , she said softly . 
And that made me very brave , Princess . 
Otherwise I should never have dared . 
Honestly , it was all the little smile's fault , bless him . 
Isn't it glorious here ? The bright eyes swept the horizon . 
Yes , she said slowly , it is . 
In fact , every prospect pleases . 
And only golf is vile . 
I know he didn't , said I. Nor , in fact , did Heber . 
All the same , I'm not vile . 
I'm rather nice , really . 
At least , so one of the smaller birds told me . 
Not really ? I mean it . 
Perhaps it was a skylark . 
As a matter of fact , I said stiffly , it was an owl . 
A breed famous for its wisdom . 
Ah , but you shouldn't believe everything you're told . 
Besides , I don't want to argue . 
I want to watch the smiles playing 'Here we go round the mulberry bush . 
The girl broke into peals of silvery laughter . 
Is my nose as bad as all that ? she said presently . 
Your nose is the nose of dainty Columbine , said I. Dream noses , they call them . 
And you know that mulberry bushes don't figure in that game any more than the bells of St . 
Clement Danes are ever used by children playing 'Oranges and lemons . 
Admit it was a floater on your part , and I'll let you play a round with me . 
I er confess , upon consideration , that the allusion That'll do , she said , laughing . 
She put out a hand , and I drew her to her feet . 
My clubs are just by that rock there . 
Do you think you can manage Hans Andersen ? Every time , said I , picking up the book . 
I shouldered her clubs and together we scrambled over the rise and down towards the fifth tee . 
Oh , I told you I adored you , didn't I ? I said suddenly . 
Asleep ! she said scornfully . 
I was awake all the time . 
I nearly died when you began to read . 
I stopped short and looked at her . 
You are a deceitful witch . 
A what witch ? The which to adore , said I. After the fourth hole the course lies inland . 
For the next ten holes you play directly away from the sea . 
My lady was a pretty player . 
I gave her two strokes a hole and led till the fourteenth , but on that green she holed a ten foot putt which made us all square . 
If she hadn't sliced her drive from the fifteenth tee , it would have been a beautiful shot . 
We watched it curl over the grey wall into the sunshot park . 
Out of bounds , I suppose , said I. What a pity , pretty Princess . 
Not at all , she replied . 
It was a lovely shot . 
You can't do better than follow that line . 
Into the deer park ? Why not ? It's much prettier . 
Yes , she said quietly , I got brother to put that board there . 
We tried to make it polite . 
The caddies used to frighten the deer so . 
I just stood and looked at her . 
The three smiles blazed back at me . 
In silence I turned and teed up . 
Then I drove after her ball into the fair park . 
When we reached the place where the board was posted , she touched my hand and pointed to her little brown shoe . 
For an instant she rested on my palm . 
The next moment she was on the top of the wall . 
She smiled her thanks before disappearing . 
I followed with the clubs . 
There was a ladder on the other side . 
She was awaiting my descent . 
In silence we walked forward together . 
Presently I touched her arm and stood still . 
She turned and looked at me , the sun making all manner of exquisite lights in her glorious hair . 
If I had a hat on , I said simply , I should uncover . 
The little bow she gave me would have launched another thousand ships . 
In the slight action all the charm of her was voiced exquisitely . 
Grace , sweetness and dignity all in a bow . 
Helen's features would not have fired a sheepcote the charm that lighted them blotted out a city . 
Cleopatra's form would not have spoiled a slave the magnetism of her ruined Marc Antony . 
Elizabeth's speech would not have sunk a coracle the personality behind it smashed an Armada . 
We came to her ball first . 
I have a way , she said . 
I know , I said , patting her golf bag . 
These aren't really clubs at all . 
What are they , then ? Broomsticks . 
It was the best part of a mile to the fair lawn , where we holed out underneath the cedars . 
I won with fourteen , which wasn't bad , considering I was bunkered in a bed of daffodils . 
She gave me tea in the old library , sweet with the fragrance of pot pourri . 
Out of its latticed windows I could see the rolling woods , bright in their fresh green livery . 
For nearly an hour and a half we sat talking . 
I told her of Daphne and the others . 
She told me of her mother and sisters and how her brother had cared for the Abbey since her father's death . 
It was true that the family was away . 
She was alone there , save for her eldest sister's child Roy . 
Next month she would go to London . 
Where I may come and see you ? I should be very hurt if you didn't . 
It's going to be rather nice . 
It is , I said with conviction . 
The dances and theatres , Ranelagh , Ascot , Lord's , the Horse Show and everything . 
How grateful to lean out of her bedroom window into the cool , quiet , starlit nights . 
How pleased to watch the setting sun making the ragged clerestory more beautiful than did all its precious panes . 
She was sitting back in her chair by the window , chin in air , showing her soft , white throat , gazing with half closed eyes up at the reddening sky . 
He understands , she murmured , he understands . 
For a little space we sat silent . 
You have been very kind . 
Perhaps I may come again . 
Only her eyes left the window and rested on mine . 
Ring the bell , she said . 
I am going to take you to see the ruins . 
They are at their best , as you said , at sundown . 
Thank you , I said , and stepped to the fireplace . 
A footman entered the room . 
I want the key of the Abbot's kitchen , said my hostess . 
Some visitors have it , madam . 
A gentleman called to ask for it ten minutes ago . 
She rose and turned to me . 
We'll probably meet them bringing it back . 
The half light lent the old quire's walls a rare beauty . 
A great peace hung over them . 
Perhaps it was of them . 
For a little we strolled , talking , upon the greensward . 
Then Now you shall see the kitchen , she said . 
If you please , Princess . 
The kitchen stood away from the ruins , in the middle of a fair meadow a circular building of grey stone , very lofty and about sixty paces in circumference . 
Its great oak door was closed . 
I could see one tiny window glassless , of course some sixteen feet from the ground . 
Why ! said the girl , stopping suddenly , the door's shut , Yes , said I but what of that ? Well , the people must have gone . 
Why ? Well , you can't see inside if you shut the door . 
Besides , if you do , you can't open it again . 
Not from within I mean . 
They might , said I. Come on . 
As we drew near , a confused murmur fell upon our ears . 
Then came the sound of blows upon the door . 
O o oh , said my companion . 
At that moment feminine tones were raised in a wail of expostulation . 
Yes , I shall ! It's silly not to . 
Help ! He elp ! Daphne's voice . 
I fell on the green grass and writhed in silent laughter . 
When the girl recoiled in horror , I caught her by a warm ankle . 
Don't move ! I whispered . 
Don't speak ! Don't make a sound ! Listen ! It's my own party in there Berry and Co . 
It's the most perfect thing that ever happened . 
Hush ! We're going to have the time of our lives . 
Again I rolled in an ecstasy of mirth . 
As the comedy of the situation dawned upon the girl , she began to laugh helplessly . 
I got up , and together we approached warily . 
As we reached the door I'm glad I had four cups of tea , said Berry . 
How many did you have ? Two , said Jill tearfully . 
Ah , I shall survive you , then . 
Very likely I shall be alive , if insane , when found . 
At any rate , with the aid of artificial respiration Rubbish ! said Daphne . 
Some one must hear us soon . 
My dear , the noise we can make wouldn't flush a titlark at twenty paces . 
No , no ! he went on airily , a lingering death awaits us . 
I only wish my caddie was here , too . 
Is anyone's tongue swelling ? That's a sure sign . 
Directly you feel that , you know you're thirsty . 
Fool ! said his wife , Besides , they'll miss the key soon . 
Where is the key ? said Jonah . 
If we once lose that , we shall never find it again . 
There was an awful silence . 
Then Er didn't I give it to you ? said Berry . 
His words were the signal for a general uproar . 
The others fell upon Berry and rent him . 
As it died down , we heard him bitterly comparing them to wolves and curs about a lion at bay . 
Then a match was struck and there were groping sounds . 
When you've quite finished with my feet , said Daphne in a withering tone . 
I thought it was a bag of meal , said her husband . 
My thoughts run on food just now , you see . 
Here he gave a yell of agony . 
Get off ! he screamed . 
That's more like it , said Jonah . 
Meal bags don't hurt , do they ? said Daphne coolly . 
My sister is proud of her dainty feet . 
Vixen , replied her spouse . 
I slipped my arm into that of the girl , who was leaning against the wall shaking with laughter . 
Tears were coursing down my cheeks . 
I drew her away from the door and whispered brokenly in her ear . 
She nodded and pulled herself together . 
Then she went to the door and knocked . 
Er hullo , said Berry . 
I thought I heard somebody calling , said the girl . 
Er did you ? said Berry . 
Yes , but I'm afraid I must have been mistaken . 
Perhaps it was some boys calling . 
There was a perfect shriek of Don't go from Daphne and Jill . 
Then You idiot ! said Daphne . 
We heard her advance to the door . 
I say , she purred , it's awfully sweet of you to have come . 
You see , it sounds awfully silly , but we're locked in . 
Oh , how dreadful for you , said the girl . 
Yes , isn't it ? There's no key hole this side . 
Have you been there long ? Oh , no . 
We just came to see the place . 
If you don't mind waiting a minute er it's so dark in here and so confusing that You don't mean to say you've lost the key ? said the girl . 
Oh , it's not lost , said Daphne . 
One of us laid it down for a moment and , really , in this darkness you can't see anything . 
If we only had some more matches I've got a box , I said . 
A long silence followed my words . 
Then My dear lady , said Berry . 
Are you still there ? Yes , said my companion , her voice shaking a little . 
Then I beseech you to have no dealing with the being whose vile accents I heard but a moment ago . 
A man of depraved instincts and profligate ways , he is no fit companion for a young and innocent girl . 
Moreover , viper like , he bears malice towards us , who have shielded him for years . 
How awful , said the girl . 
Yes , said Berry , for your own sake , dear lady , beware of him . 
And for ours , too , I beg you . 
On no account accept his proffered assistance in the matter of the key , I mean . 
If he really has matches , tell him to throw them in . 
Adopt a hectoring tone and he will fear you . 
I joined her , and the meadow resounded with our merriment . 
I'll see you Please , Boy , dear , cried Jill . 
I laughed and pitched the box into the kitchen . 
The next second we heard a match struck , and the groping sounds recommenced . 
The girl and I strolled a little back from the window and stood , awaiting the key . 
So it's all come true , said I , looking at her . 
What has ? The fairy tale . 
I pointed to the kitchen . 
There is the copper castle , and here with a bow the pretty Princess . 
The tinder box I have just thrown to my companions . 
And I suppose you're the soldier , she said slowly . 
Yes , I said , the common soldier . 
Common ? Yes , dear , I said , taking her hand . 
Common , but thorough thoroughly common , but uncommonly thorough . 
And now look at me , pretty Princess . 
She turned a laughing face to mine . 
Suddenly , as I bent forward , the eyes flashed . 
I suppose this is the little smile's fault , too , she said quietly . 
Instantly I released her hand and stood up , smiling . 
No , I said gently . 
It would have been the soldier's . 
For a moment she smiled back . 
Then she slipped an arm round my neck . 
Let's call it Hans Andersen's , she whispered . 
A perfect Babel arose suddenly from the kitchen . 
In the midst of the turmoil I seemed to discern Berry's fat laugh . 
The next second a large key hurtled through the window . 
I picked it up and strode to the door . 
When I had put it into the keyhole , I paused . 
Buck up , Boy ! said Berry . 
One question , said I. Where was the key ? Where d'you think ? said Jonah bitterly . 
In his pocket all the time ? said I. Right , said Berry . 
I'm going to , said I. I'm going to let you out . 
CHAPTER VII EVERY PICTURE TELLS A STORY The front door banged . 
Followed quick steps on the steep , uncarpeted stairs , and a knock on the studio's door . 
Come in , said I. The door opened and a girl in a lilac dress swept into the room . 
I'm afraid I'm awfully la O o oh ! she said . 
If it isn't her ! said I. For a moment we stood looking at one another with big eyes . 
Then Where's Mr. Larel ? she demanded . 
He'll be here in a moment . 
Won't you sit down ? He and I are old friends . 
I know , she said . 
He's told me The devil he has , said I. A little peal of laughter . 
As I feared , said I. My dear , you've been misled . 
That over there is a chair . 
It cost three and ninepence in the King's Road . 
Local colour , you know . 
He's putting it in his new picture , 'Luxury' Still smiling , she took her seat . 
Then He said you were awful , she said . 
Till a fortnight ago , I had not seen George Larel for quite five years . 
Not since we had been at Oxford together . 
When he went down , he left England , to study , I understood . 
He always drew rather well . 
Then one spring morning I struck him in Piccadilly , by the railings of the Green Park . 
He was standing still , a large , blue air ball in his hand , steadfastly regarding the Porters' Rest . 
Well , George , said I. He looked round . 
He pointed to the Rest . 
Why didn't they keep the Pike at Hyde Park Corner ? I shrugged my shoulders . 
I begged them to , said I. But you know what they are . 
George looked at me critically . 
Then That's a good hat , he said . 
I'd like to paint you just as you are . 
He stepped back and half closed his eyes . 
When can you come ? I always said I would , you know , he added . 
You're very good , George . 
Come to the club and He shook his head . 
We'll talk , when you come . 
I've got to go to Richmond now . 
He pointed to the air ball . 
There was a child there yesterday , playing in the Park , with eyes I've only seen their like once before . 
Will you come to morrow at eleven ? Cheyne Row . 
I forget the number , but it's got a green door . 
He turned to the driver . 
Go to Richmond , he said , opening the door . 
As it moved , he put his head out of the window . 
Mind you wear that hat , old boy . 
The next morning I had my first sitting . 
It was a great success . 
There was much to say , and we talked furiously for three hours . 
And all the time I sat still upon the throne , and George painted . 
About his work he said little , but I gathered that be had begun to do well . 
He mentioned that he had had two or three commissions . 
I'm on that now , he said carelessly , during one of my rests . 
He was pointing to a canvas , which leaned face inwards against the wall . 
I walked across the studio , and turned it round . 
A girl in a flowered dress and a shady hat , her slight shining legs crossed at the knee . 
Sitting square in the high backed chair , he was painting her , one small hand on each of its rosewood arms . 
The face was most of all unfinished . 
You've got those legs well , said I , And I like the dress . 
She looks rather lovely , as far as one can tell without seeing the face . 
She's all right , he said . 
At the end of my second sitting George picked up a knife and began deliberately to scrape out all the work he had done that morning . 
I watched him , petrified with horror . 
Sorry , old chap , he said , smiling . 
I like that curve of the nostril . 
It denotes the force of character which has made me what I am . 
I want it to be good of you , he said simply . 
Half way through my third sitting George gave a cry and flung off his coat . 
What's the matter ? said I. Something biting ? Talk , man , he said , seizing his palette . 
Don't mind how I answer . 
By Jove , how I'm going to paint ! Clearly the fit was upon him . 
These artists ! Not daring to disobey , I talked and talked . 
Heaven knows what I said . 
After an hour my tongue clove to the roof of my mouth , but I talked on . 
And all the time George alternately bent his brews upon me , and hung himself at the canvas , uttering strange , smothered cries and oaths , but painting , painting . 
At a quarter past two he laid down his palette and cried to me to descend . 
For a long moment I looked at the portrait . 
Then I turned to George and clapped him on the back . 
I think you're going to make a name , said I. That's right , he said . 
And now give me a cigarette . 
Before we went to lunch , he showed me the picture of the girl . 
Such a fine , brave face . 
Not a bit pretty just beautiful . 
Dark hair showing under the brim of the hat , steady brown eyes , the mouth exquisite . 
That was three days ago . 
And now pleasedly I regarded the original . 
May I offer you a cigarette ? I said . 
When I had lighted it for her To day is Thursday , isn't it ? she said . 
That's just what I was going to say . 
Yes , I'm sure it is , because last night brother left The light on in the kitchen garden , with the result that this morning all the cocks were two hours fast . 
But of course it is . 
Hasn't Thursday always been my lucky day ? She blew out a little cloud of smoke and smiled at it . 
Then I don't know you at all , you know , she said gravely , and Aunt Prudence always used to say I know . 
They quote her in the lifts on the Tube . 
But then I'm not a pickpocket , and you are smoking . 
Besides , your picture knows mine very well . 
They've seen quite a lot of each other lately . 
Yes , but And then you know my picture a little , and I know yours by heart . 
I know every eyelash , long as they are . 
I believe I could say them . 
But then I was always good at poetry . 
She rose and made the daintiest curtsey . 
Would have been better , she said , resuming her seat in the depths of 'Luxury . 
But the skirts of to day don't help . 
And my bow would have been deeper but the braces I bought yesterday afternoon That'll do , she said , laughing . 
I am here , as you are , in the interest of Posterity . 
Did he tell you Thursday , too ? Certainly . 
We were standing in St . 
James's Square , near where I get my shirts . 
And now he's forgotten us both . 
On the contrary , he's probably remembered . 
And is consequently afraid to come himself ? Exactly . 
Well , we couldn't very well overlook the insult , could we ? It might be wiped out in paint . 
Then French polish might do , I said . 
But then , he hasn't got any of that . 
To tell you the truth , I don't know that I'm very angry with him . 
I shall pretend to be , of course . 
But , now that from admiring the imitation , I find myself face to face with the real thing , I And the rest . 
I like these cigarettes rather . 
Dear Sir or Madam , said I , what is it about our cigarettes that so appeals to your palate ? She laughed . 
I don't know anything about cigarettes , really , but these seem so fresh . 
My dear , said I , you could have said nothing more calculated to warm the cockles of my heart . 
These cigarettes are actually straight from the stable , I mean the Ottoman Empire . 
I shall send you a box this afternoon by Carter Paterson . 
But tell me , why is their paper brown ? Berry says it's swank . 
As a matter of fact , it's maize . 
I like it myself it's so nourishing . 
Besides , it goes so well with a blue suit . 
Talking of which , with a flowered dress and dark hair , it's absolutely it . 
She stretched out a shapely hand , reflectively settling her frock . 
White ones would match my gloves , though . 
And the whites of your eggs I mean eyes . 
Oh , and your soft throat . 
But He said you were awful . 
You see , my dear , we live in an age of contrast . 
Women no longer play for safety in dress . 
They have begun to dare . 
While matches have to be struck . 
They're passive , while contrasts are active . 
We're rather clever this morning , aren't you ? It's the coming of summer in my case . 
I was in the Row at half past seven this morning , and the air I know . 
It was like hock cup out of a stone jar , while the others are on the bank looking for a place to tie the punt up . 
I was in the bathroom Lazy . 
Taking off my riding boots . 
You see , you don't give me time . 
I feel that my tie is not straight . 
Is there a mirror in the room ? No , there is not a mirror in the room . 
Either I must use the patent leather of your little shoes , or perhaps you will lend me one of your large eyes . 
Of the two , I'd rather have the eye . 
Shah I call you ? If you please . 
My pet name is Birdie , short for Bolingbroke . 
Meanwhile , may I have a nail ? Only one little nail ? You'll have a whole palm in a minute . 
Which will be quite in order . 
I have frequently borne the palm . 
How many biscuits have yon taken ? Seven , and two buns . 
My sister's awfully proud of them . 
You shouldn't wear made up ties , she said severely . 
I sat up and looked at her . 
Mischievously she regarded the ceiling . 
Presently Note the awful silence , I said . 
And dickeys are going out too . 
Look here , said I , I shall undress in a minute . 
These are matters touching the reputation . 
With that I gravely untied my tie . 
To my indignation she clapped her small hands with delight , and gave way to quiet laughter . 
Very good , I said . 
Now I shall simply have to have an eye . 
No mere nail will suffice . 
You will have nothing of the kind . 
I rose and walked to the window in some dudgeon . 
After considerable focussing , I managed to locate the environs of my collar in a dusty pane . 
While the work of reconstruction was proceeding Once upon a time , said I , there was a queen . 
She was very beautiful from the crown of her little head , which the dark hair kept always , to the soles of her shining feet . 
And people loved to look at her and hear the music of her laughing . 
You weren't allowed to see the crown jewels , which she wore in her eyes . 
Outside a taxi slowed down and stopped . 
Cautiously I peered out of the window . 
I turned to the girl . 
Here he is , I said . 
As I spoke , an idea came to me . 
Hurriedly I glanced round the studio . 
Then Quick , I said , pointing to a little recess , which was curtained off . 
A smile , and she whipped behind the curtain . 
Are you all right ? I whispered . 
Put your hand out a second . 
Quick , lass ! I spoke excitedly . 
What for ? she said , thrusting it between the curtains . 
Homage , said I , kissing the slight fingers . 
The next moment George burst into the room . 
Thank heaven , he said , as soon as he saw me . 
What d'you mean ? I said stiffly . 
I'm so thankful , he said with a sigh of relief . 
I knew it was you . 
I was a fool to worry . 
But , you know , I suddenly got an idea that I'd fixed Thursday for Margery Cicester . 
That would have been awful , I said bitterly . 
Yes , said George , it would , wouldn't it ? I could have sworn I heard smothered laughter in the recess . 
But , George , I said , how did you know I liked waiting ? George laughed and clapped me on the back . 
I'm sorry , old man . 
But you see One hour and ten minutes , said I , looking at my watch . 
George took off his coat , and began to draw a blind over the sky light . 
I was very late last night , he said . 
D'you mean to say you've only just got up ? I roared . 
Oh , I've had breakfast . 
I picked up my hat and turned to the door . 
Where are you going ? said George . 
There are limits , I said over my shoulder . 
If it had been Miss Cicester , you would have crawled about the room , muttering abject apologies and asking her to kick you . 
But as it's me No , I shouldn't . 
I should have said that my housekeeper 'd been taken ill suddenly , or . 
Go on , said I. This was better . 
Or that the Tube had stuck , or something . 
Why not tell her the truth , and fling yourself You know what women are ? George , you surprise me . 
Would you deceive an innocent girl ? Women are so narrow minded . 
Nice kid , though , this . 
You mean , Margery er What's her name ? Yes . 
She's taken rather a fancy to you your picture , I mean . 
Then What's she like ? I said carelessly . 
To look at , I mean ? Like ! roared George . 
What d'you mean ? Like , I replied coolly . 
Well , she's like that , you fool ! said George heatedly , pointing to the picture . 
Is she really ? Look here , said George . 
If you can't Wait a bit , said I. When was she due here ? I mean to say , supposing you had fixed to day for her to come ? Eleven o'clock . 
Why ? There now , I said musingly . 
It must have been just about then . 
George seized me by the arm . 
Has she been and gone ? he cried . 
Well , I don't know . 
But about an hour ago a girl did come here . 
Now I come to think , she was something like the picture . 
I thought she was a model , and George flung up his hands with a cry . 
I stopped and looked at him . 
Go on , he said excitedly . 
What did she say ? Yes , I know it was about then , because a van had just gone up the street . 
One of those big vans with Damn the van ! said George . 
What did she say ? She didn't say anything . 
I tell you , I thought she was a model . 
I just said you didn't want one this morning . 
What's the matter ? said I. Aren't you well ? Had she a lilac dress on ? he cried , with the air of one hoping against hope . 
Er yes , said I. At that , George uttered a terrible cry , snatched up his coat , and before I could stop him , rushed out of the studio . 
I put my head out of the window . 
As he dashed hatless out of the front door Where are you going ? I said . 
He threw me a black look . 
Then To wire an apology , he said . 
I turned to find my lady at my shoulder . 
He's gone to wire you an apology , I said . 
You are wicked , she said . 
I feel quite I put my head on one side and regarded her . 
Nice kid , though , I said . 
I know , she said severely . 
But the poor man She's taken quite a fancy to me , said I. She drew back , biting a red lip and trying hard not to smile . 
He'll soon be back , I went on , and then you're going to have your show . 
All queens do sooner or later . 
Really , I think he's had enough , she said , settling herself in the high backed chair . 
Only you thought Mr. Larel ought to know . 
I've never met anyone like you before . 
My dear , you never will . 
And remember you've taken rather a fancy Here he is . 
Yes , queens always have their hands kissed . 
I seized my hat , stick , and gloves , and faded behind the curtains . 
Mr. Larel , will you ever forgive me ? I'm most awfully sorry . 
D'you know I quite forgot . 
I suppose you'd given me up ? And now it's too late . 
I only came to apologize . 
I can't think George couldn't get a word in edgeways . 
I watched him through the crack of the curtains . 
His face was a study . 
Of course , he was mentally cursing himself for sending the wire so precipitately , and wondering how the deuce he could explain its arrival without revealing the true state of affairs . 
By the way , said Margery suddenly , there was a man here when I came . 
I suppose it was all right . 
You mean him ? he said , pointing to my portrait . 
The man you're painting ? Oh , no . 
At least , she added , leaning forward and looking carefully at the picture , I don't think so . 
But it must have been , cried George . 
He was here five minutes ago , and no other man it must have been him . 
But the one I saw was clean shaven , said Margery . 
George pointed to my portrait with a shaking finger . 
Isn't that one clean shaven ? he wailed . 
So it is , said Margery . 
For the moment , the shadow I'll never paint again ! said George fiercely . 
They've hung over each other's portraits for a week Oh ! cried Margery . 
And the first time they see one another , they don't know one another from Adam . 
Did you find the post office all right ? said I. Then I came out . 
One thing , said Margery . 
Did the Tube stick ? George stared at her . 
Then you were here , he gasped . 
All the time , said I. Margery broke into long laughter . 
You two , he said . 
One hour and ten minutes , said I. To say nothing of asking us both on the same day . 
You two , said George . 
We two give you five minutes , I said . 
Of these , three may be conveniently occupied by your full and abject apology , and two by the arranging of our next sittings . 
Then we two are going to lunch . 
It is , ah , some time since we two breakfasted . 
I made a careful note of Margery's sittings to be , as well as of my own . 
As we were going You know , old chap , said I , you've never apologized . 
Miss Cicester knows that I am her humble servant . 
At any rate , said I , there'll be the telegram . 
Half way down the stairs Margery turned and ran back to the studio . 
When she came back , she was smiling . 
She turned to me with a maddening smile and opened her mouth . 
Then she changed her mind and raised her eyebrows instead . 
This isn't fair , I said . 
You can't ride with the herring and run with the beagles too . 
But she would not tell me . 
Neither would she let me give her lunch . 
But the telegram , said I desperately . 
You might let me I don't suppose you have tea , but if you do happen to be in St . 
James's Street about a quarter to five . 
That afternoon she showed me the wire . 
It was as follows Thousand apologies housekeeper's sudden illness detained me just learned my fool of servant misunderstood hasty instructions and refused you admission another thousand apologies two thousand in all writing . 
We thought it was rather good . 
The next morning I glanced at the clock and pushed back my chair . 
I must be off , I murmured . 
Jonah raised his eyes and then looked at Berry . 
The latter's eyes were already raised . 
He had begun to sigh . 
What's the matter with you ? said I defiantly . 
One moment , said Berry . 
How many more of these sittings ? Wednesdays be the last , I think . 
Which means that she's leaving Town on Thursday . 
I looked at him sharply . 
Then What d'you mean , 'She' I said shortly . 
I have known you for Less of it , said I. Much less . 
You know , old chap , said Daphne lazily , you do seem suspiciously keen about this portrait business , don't you ? I looked at her . 
She returned my indignant gaze with a steady smile , her chin propped on her white hands , her elbows upon the table . 
Afraid of being a minute late , and all that sort of bilge . 
This is an outrage , I gasped . 
This was nothing but the truth . 
It really was , They were simply drawing a bow at a venture . 
Don't tell me Berry began . 
I shan't , said I. Naughty temper , said my brother in law . 
Has she shell like ears ? Look here , I said , all of you . 
Must we ? said Berry . 
This was the whole truth . 
Guilty upon your own confession of felony , said Jonah . 
Have you anything to say why the Court With the same object I am going to day . 
George was going to give me an hour before Margery came . 
Perhaps we're wronging Boy , said Jill . 
Thank you , dear , said I. You can't wrong outlaws , said Berry . 
Some day we shall know the ter ruth . 
I believe you're jealous , said I. Just because you can't find an artist sufficiently dauntless to reproduce your brutal physiognomy He means to be rude , Berry explained . 
I walked to the door . 
Don't forget our lunch , old chap , said my sister . 
You've taken away my appetite , said I. Oh , Boy , you know we love you . 
I say , said Berry . 
What ? said I , pausing . 
Tell George to put in the warts . 
Six weeks had hurried away . 
And then , one morning , I got a note from George , saying that he had had my picture framed and was sending it along . 
I broke the news to the others after breakfast . 
Oh , Boy ! cried Jill excitedly . 
I want to see it awfully , said Daphne . 
Why rush upon your fate ? said her husband . 
I hope you'll like it , said I nervously . 
Where are we going to bury I mean , hang it ? said Jonah . 
What about the potting shed ? said Berry . 
We can easily move the more sensitive bulbs . 
If it's good , said Daphne , we'll have it in the library . 
I object , said her husband . 
I don't want to be alone with it after dark . 
Then Bur rother , said I. I like to think that I shall be always with you . 
What a thought ! And you will look UP from your London Mail and Don't , said Berry , emitting a hollow groan . 
He covered his face with his hands . 
Where is the Indian Club ? he added brokenly , I don't mean the one in Whitehall Court . 
The jagged one with nails in it . 
I would beat my breast . 
Where were the worthy worthies worthy ? I know , said I. They were worthy where they were . 
Where the blaze is , said Berry . 
The right answer , said Jonah , is Eastbourne . 
Is the trick cycle ready , dear ? We're on next , you know . 
Here a servant came in and announced that a picture had come for me . 
We poured into the hall . 
Yes , it had come . 
In the charge of two messenger boys and a taxi , carefully shrouded in sackcloth . 
Berry touched the latter and nodded approval . 
Then he turned to the boys . 
Are there no ashes ? he said . 
We bore it into the dining room and set it upon a chair by the side of a window . 
I took out my knife and proceeded to cut the string . 
Wait a moment , said Jonah . 
Where's the police whistle ? It's all right , said Berry . 
James has gone for the divisional surgeon . 
I pulled off the veil . 
It was really a speaking likeness of Margery . 
Two hours later the telephone went . 
I picked up the receiver . 
Is that six o four o six Mayfair ? excitedly . 
It is , said I. Oh , is that you ? It is . 
Oh , d'you know , the most awful thing has happened . 
I know , I said heavily . 
Then you have got mine ? Yes . 
I suppose you guessed I've got yours ? You don't sound very sympathetic , aggrievedly . 
My dear , I'm You don't know what I've been through . 
Don't I ? I said wearily . 
CHAPTER VIII THE BUSY BEERS They never sting some people , said Daphne . 
Perhaps , said I , perhaps that is because they never get the chance . 
It doesn't offer , as they say . 
Oh , yes , they do . 
They simply don't sting them . 
During Lent , I suppose ? I murmured drowsily . 
A May afternoon can be pleasantly hot . 
It's a sort of power they have , said Daphne mercilessly . 
The bees ? It's a very offensive power . 
No , Boy , the people . 
They simply swarm all over some persons , and it's all right . 
Perhaps , said Berry , looking at me , perhaps you have that power . 
Who knows ? Who will ever know ? said I defiantly . 
We can easily find out , said Berry eagerly . 
It is , I said , just conceivable that I have that power . 
In short , mistakes will occur , and , as an orphan and a useful member of society , I must refuse to gratify your curiosity . 
I think you might try , said Daphne . 
We want them to swarm awfully , and they might actually swarm on you . 
Pardon me , I do know . 
I have no doubt that they would swarm on me . 
Well , then Disobliging of me not to let them , isn't it ? And we could have the funeral one day next week . 
What are you doing on Tuesday ? Well , we've got to move them from the skep into the new hive tonight somehow , said my sister , and you've got to help . 
Oh , I'Il help right enough . 
What'll you do ? I'Il go up the road and send the traffic round by West Hanger . 
We don't want to be hauled up for manslaughter . 
He'd better hold the skep , I think , she said simply . 
Yes , said her husband . 
Or keep the new hive steady while we shake the bees out of the skep into it . 
We've only got two veils , but he won't want one for that . 
Of course not , said I with a bitter laugh . 
In fact , I think I'd better wear a zephyr and running shorts . 
I shall be able to move with more freedom . 
Ah , no , said Berry . 
You must keep the trunk covered . 
The face and hands don't really matter , but the back and legs . 
Nonsense , nonsense , said I. I'm not afraid of a bee or two . 
How many are there in the hive ? Twenty or twenty five thousand , said Daphne . 
Where are you going ? To set my house in order . 
Heaven forgive you , as I do . 
I have already forgiven Berry . 
I should like Jonah to have my stop watch . 
As I walked across the lawn , I heard the wretched girl reading from The Busy Bee Keeper Toads are among the bees' most deadly enemies . 
They will sit at the mouth of a hive and snap up bees as fast as they emerge . 
Till then I had always been rather against toads . 
I well remember the day on which I learned of the purchase of the bees . 
It had been raining the night before and all day the clouds hung low and threatening . 
Misfortune was in the air . 
Then Daphne , who never will leave ill alone , had announced that they must be moved into a new hive . 
In vain I characterized her project as impious , wanton , and indecent in turn . 
A new hive , something resembling a Swiss chalet was ordered , and with it came two pairs of gauntlets and some veils which looked like meat safes . 
Oh yes , and a 'smoker' . 
The 'smoker' was the real nut . 
At a distance of five paces this useful invention might have been mistaken for a small cannon . 
As a matter of fact , it consisted of a pair of bellows , with the nozzle , which was very large , on the top instead of at the end . 
As touching the 'smoker' the method of procedure was as follows One lighted a roll of brown paper , blew It out again and placed it in the nozzle . 
Then , telling the gardener's boy to stand by with the salvolatile , one began to blow the bellows . 
Immediately the instrument belched forth clouds of singularly offensive smoke . 
But that , my brothers , is where we are wrong . 
Where bees are concerned , the 'smoker's' fumes are of a soporific and soothing nature . 
At least , that was what the books said . 
Seven o'clock that evening found us huddled apprehensively together outside the kitchen garden , talking nervously about the Budget . 
A fragrant blue smoke stole up gently from the 'smoker , which I held at arm's length . 
Berry and Daphne were arrayed in veils and gauntlets . 
They reminded me irresistibly of Tenniel's Tweedledum and Tweedledee . 
Mind you're ready with the 'smoker' when I want it , said Berry shortly . 
I er I thought you'd take it with you , I said uneasily . 
You must be ready to hand it to Berry if the bees get infuriated . 
Look here , said I , I'm sure I shall do something wrong . 
You'd much better have the gardener's boy . 
And have to pay him hundreds of pounds compensation . 
I don't think , said Berry . 
At the mention of compensation I started violently and dropped the 'smoker' . 
Where ? said Daphne suspiciously . 
And you ? I shall probably be just getting my second wind . 
They looked at one another and sneered into their veils . 
It's murder , I said desperately , sheer murder . 
The stable clock chimed a quarter past seven . 
We entered the kitchen garden in single file . 
The hive was as silent as the tomb . 
It seemed almost wicked to All went well until Berry was on the point of lifting the skep . 
Suddenly something jumped in the wallflowers by Daphne , and she started against her husband with a little scream . 
But my pleasure was shortlived . 
Berry's hand had been upon the skep and the jolt had aroused the bees . 
I felt instinctively it was an angry one . 
My brother in law had the 'smoker' in his hand . 
They told me afterwards that I had gone and given it him . 
That shows the state I was in . 
I was not responsible for my actions . 
With all speed he applied the nozzle to the mouth of the skep . 
He was in time to stop the main body , but a few had already emerged . 
I stood as if rooted to the spot . 
Immediately seven bees alighted on Berry's left hand . 
I saw them black against the white of his gauntlet . 
Spellbound I watched him train the 'smoker' upon them one by one . 
Three rolled slowly off before as many puffs , intoxicated , doubtless , with delight and drunk with ecstasy . 
The fourth one he missed . 
The fifth moved as he was shooting and he missed again . 
Then he got nervous and tried to please two at once . 
The sixth began to buzz and four more arrived . 
Berry lost his head and began to shoot wildly . 
One settled on Daphne's veil and she screamed . 
The hive began to hum again . 
With mistaken gallantry , Berry left the bees on his gauntlet and turned to the one on his wife's veil . 
The next moment she was reeling against the wall in a paroxysm of choking coughs . 
Some more of the twenty five thousand began to emerge from the skep , and a moment later I was stung in the lobe of the right ear . 
The pain , I may say , was acute , but it certainly broke the spell , and I turned and ran as I have never run before . 
Across the garden , down the drive , out of the lodge gates , over a hedge , with eighteen inches to spare , and across country like a thoroughbred . 
At last I plunged into a roadside wood almost on the top of a girl . 
Lie down , I gasped . 
Why ? Never mind why . 
Lie down for your life . 
She lay down wonderingly beside me , as I sobbed and panted in the undergrowth . 
At last , after cautioning her to keep quiet , I listened long and carefully . 
I turned my attention to the girl . 
She was sitting up now regarding me with big eyes . 
Her hair was almost hidden under a big brimmed garden hat , but I could see her face properly . 
Her features were delicate and regular , and her mouth was small and red . 
She was wearing a soft blue dress of linen , and her brown arms were bare to the elbow . 
In her hand she had a posy of wild flowers . 
Little shoes of blue , untanned leather , I think it is . 
She was slender and lithe to look at , and the flush of health glowed in her cheeks . 
I'm sorry , I said . 
It all comes of beeing . 
If we hadn't been beeing And yet he doesn't look mad , she said musingly . 
I'm not mad , I said . 
I admit that if I had on a bonnet , I should have several bees in it . 
Happily I lost it at the water jump . 
A what ? she said , recoiling . 
At least I was one . 
Two other beers were with me busy beers . 
Stay , I went on , be of good beer I mean cheer . 
I do not refer to the beverage of that name . 
By 'beer' I mean one actively interested in bees . 
Why were you running ? I spread out my hands . 
The beggars were at my heels . 
By which you mean That the inmates of the hive in which I was just now actively interesting myself , resented such active interest and endeavoured to fall upon me in great numbers . 
And you escaped unhurt ? Except that at the outset I was winged in the ear , I have baulked them of their prey . 
Selah ! I had an idea that the person of a beer was sacred . 
So it is , my dear . 
But these were impious bees , dead to all sense of right and wrong . 
They've done themselves in this time . 
Guilty of sacrilege and brawling , they may shortly expect a great plague of toads . 
It will undoubtedly come upon them . 
I shall curse them tomorrow morning directly after breakfast . 
Have you reallv been stung ? Every time . 
But it's very overrated , believe me . 
After a brief scrutiny my lady announced that she could see the sting . 
Her lips were parted and she was smiling a little . 
If I didn't love your mouth when you smile , I should be inclined to suggest that it was nothing to laugh about , I said reprovingly . 
The grey eye met mine . 
Then she laid a small cool hand firmly on my chin and pushed it round and away . 
Otherwise I can't see properly , she explained . 
Then , I believe I can dig it out , she said quietly . 
I broke away at that and looked round . 
She was quite serious and began to unfasten a gold safety pin . 
Look here , I said hurriedly . 
Police , I said feebly . 
Assault and wounding stalk in your midst . 
She really got it out very well . 
And so you live here ? she said , after a while . 
In the vicinity , said I. About a mile and a half away as the crow flies or a beer runs the terms are synonymous , you know . 
Large , grey , creepered residence , four reception , two bed , six bath , commands extensive views , ten minutes from workhouse , etc . 
Is it 'White Ladies ? It is . 
From which you now behold me an outcast a wanderer upon the face of the earth . 
But how did you know ? They'll be quiet by now , she said , ignoring my question . 
The bees , I mean . 
She rose to her knees , but I laid a hand on her shoulder . 
What are you going to do , lass ? I shall be late for dinner . 
Your blood be upon your head . 
I have no doubt they are at this moment going about like raging lions seeking upon whom they may swarm . 
Must I pass your house ? To get to the village you must . 
Well I'm going , anyway . 
She stared at me and her glad smile settled it . 
As we approached White Ladies , a solitary bee sang by us and startled me . 
My nerves were on edge . 
I breathed more freely when we had passed the lodge gates . 
The village lay half a mile further on . 
Suddenly she caught at my arm . 
Behind us came from a distance a faint , drowsy hum . 
Even as we listened , it grew louder . 
The next second we were running down the straight white road , hand in hand and hell for leather . 
She ran nobly , did the little girl . 
But all the time the hum was getting more and more distinct . 
I wondered if the village would ever come . 
It seemed as if someone had moved it since the morning . 
About the first house was the old Lamb Inn , with its large stable yard . 
There stood a lonely brougham , horseless with upturned shafts . 
She slipped on the cobbles , as we turned in , and almost brought me down . 
Go on , she gasped . 
I'll I picked her up and ran to the brougham . 
The humming was very loud . 
To fling open the door and push her in was the work of a moment . 
Then I stumbled in after her and slammed the door . 
As I pulled up the window , several bees dashed themselves buzzing against it . 
Neither of us spoke for a minute or two . 
We lay back against the cushions sobbing and gasping for breath , while more bees pattered against the windows . 
Presently I stole a glance at my companion . 
She was leaning back in her comer , still breathing hard with her eyes shut . 
But she seemed to know I was looking at her , for the soft lips parted in a smile . 
But she did not open her eyes . 
I laid a hand on her arm . 
How's the ankle ? I said . 
You turned it , didn't you ? Yes , but it's not very bad , thanks . 
I think you saved my life . 
I'm afraid that's putting it rather high . 
But you might have been stung , so I'm thankful I was there . 
At the same time , I can't help feeling that it is to my company that you owe this this unwarrantable assault . 
They want to swarm on me . 
Or else they've recognized one of their enemies . 
They said , 'That's a beer , one of the beers . 
Let us slay him , and the intoxicants . 
Of course , Berry and Daphne are dead . 
With Jill and Jonah both away , I don't know what on earth we shall do about tennis tomorrow . 
I wish we could have some air , said the girl . 
I opened the near side window an inch and stood by to close it if necessary . 
But the bees kept to the other side , where they crawled venomously over the pane . 
What ever are we to do ? she said . 
Wait awhile , said I. Excuse me , but you don't happen to have such a thing as a toad on you , have you ? I hope not . 
That's a pity , I said thoughtfully . 
Sorry to disappoint you , she said . 
Have you lost yours ? It's all right , said I. Toads are with us . 
I'm going to get a pack of toads and hunt them . 
I shall advertise in the Exchange and Mart tomorrow . 
How's the ankle ? A little stiff . 
Let me rub it , please . 
Oh , no , thanks . 
Don't be ungrateful , I said . 
What about my ear ? She set a small foot on the opposite seat . 
I tcok off the little shoe . 
At length I say , she said suddenly , what about dinner ? Dinner ! I exclaimed . 
Oh , dinner's gone right out . 
Simply not done in the best circles . 
My dear , you surprise me ! Ah , but you see I don't move in the best circles . 
I'm only very common and vulgar and actually get hungry sometimes . 
Shocking , isn't it ? Never mind , I said encouragingly . 
If you begin to break off this indecent habit It seems I have begun . 
It's a quarter to nine . 
You know it is awful . 
But there you are , lass , you never know your luck . 
She looked at me darkly . 
Needs must when the devil drives , she said . 
My skin may be thick , said I , but it's not impenetrable . 
With a light laugh she laid a hand on my arm . 
Don't be silly , lad , but put my shoe on again . 
As I fitted it on , I heard footsteps in the yard outside . 
Instinctively we both shrank back into the brougham . 
It was quite dark now . 
Then a stable door grated and I heard a horse move . 
Who is it ? she whispered . 
Some ostler , I expect . 
What's he going to do ? I forget for the moment , said I. I ought to know , too , I added reflectively . 
Wait a minute , I will consult the oracle . 
So saying I made a pass or two and gazed intently into the gloom . 
Do not speak to the man at the wheel , and , above all , refrain from disconcerting the beer I mean seer . 
What do I see ? A man let him pass for a man in motion . 
Yes , I said excitedly , yes , it is a stable . 
The man moves across the stable . 
Lo , he leads forth a horse . 
I turned to her triumphantly . 
The horse you fancy , madam , will also run , and the ah fee is one guinea . 
You don't fancy any horse , madam ? Ah , but you will . 
Sooner , perhaps , than you But you can't help it , madam . 
Pleasant weather we're having , aren't we ? No , I'm afraid I haven't change for a note , but I could send it on , madam . 
On Monday you for instance Stop , stop , she said , laughing and putting a little hand on my wrist . 
A horse was undoubtedly led out of the stable . 
Breathlessly we heard it come across the yard , and the next moment we felt rather than saw it put between the shafts of our brougham . 
My companion uttered a stifled cry and set a hand upon the door handle . 
Sit still , lass , I whispered for the love of Heaven , sit still . 
He's going to drive us away . 
But where are we going ? Heaven knows . 
But away from the bees , any way . 
The horse was harnessed at last . 
The lamps were lighted the while we cowered in the depths of the brougham , the coachman mounted heavily upon the box and we rolled slowly out of the yard . 
Round to the left we swung , away from White Ladies , slowly into the village and to the left again . 
I kept my companion informed as to our whereabouts . 
That's right , I said , there's the butcher's . 
Splendid meat he sells I beg his pardon purveys . 
Always follows the hounds on one of his own saddles . 
You should see the plugs he keeps . 
I've got one I use as a paper weight . 
We used to think it was a piece of the original Atlantic cable . 
I've had it years now , and it's still going strong very strong . 
It makes rather a good paperweight , imparts a homely soupcon of farmyard life into one's correspondence , you know . 
The P. M. had to give up reading my letters said they made him feel as if he'd gone to the country . 
Ah , we are now within a stone's throw of the church a noble edifice , complete with one bell . 
Hullo ! Stand by with that ankle , lass we're going to the doctor's . 
Shouldn't wonder if he wants to paint your foot . 
He is a bit of an artist in his way . 
When I cut my head open last year , he painted the place all over with some of his stuff . 
It certainly healed all right , but the way the wasps followed me I might have been a private view . 
You stand on the steps quite naturally , and I'll manage the driver . 
As we drew up to the porch , I opened the door of the vehicle and handed her out . 
Then I closed the door very carefully and looked at the coachman . 
His eyes were protruding from his head , and he recoiled as I laid a hand the box . 
How much ? I said carelessly . 
A choking sound came from between his lips , and the the next moment he had flung off the opposite side and was peering into the depths of the brougham . 
When he had felt all over the cushions , he shut the door and came and looked at me over the back of the horse . 
Well , I'm drat Not yet , I said . 
Look at the perspiration on my forehead . 
He took off his hat , and bent his head toward the lamp , that my view might be the better . 
I had already noticed that you were rather hot , I said shortly , but had in error attributed it to the clemency of the weather . 
I would not have your blood also upon my soul . 
Go hon , he said with ponderous sarcasm . 
No , no , I said hastily , not all . 
Do yourself justice , man . 
Justice , he said bitterly . 
I wonder you 'ave the face to Be thankful that one of us has a face to have , I said shortly . 
Among other maladies you suffer from irritation of the palm . 
Yes ? He stared at me . 
Don't know about the palm in particular , he said , after a while , but being so much with the 'orses it do tend to That'll do , I said hurriedly . 
Lo , here is a crown , by the vulgar erroneously denominated a 'dollar' . 
Take it , and drink the lady's health before you go to bed . 
He took the coins greedily , and touched his hat . 
Then he partially undressed , in the traditional fashion , and put them away , apparently in a wallet next to his skin . 
I turned to the girl . 
We'll go in , shall we ? I said . 
They'll give us some food , even if they do want to paint us . 
And we can ring up your people . 
I expect they'll be getting anxious . 
This morning they went up to town for the day , and they've only just about got back . 
And , as I was dining out , they won't expect me for another half hour . 
But I think Dining out , lass ? Good heavens , I'm afraid you'll have missed the soup , won't you ? I thought they'd given up dinner in the best circles . 
But what about the auction halma ? That's what's worrying me . 
And so I was going to say if you'll be good enough to tell me where I am , I'll make my way home to where I'm staying . 
Before I could reply , a voice that I recognized came through the drawing room window . 
Ah , how do you do , Mrs. Fletcher . 
Sorry we've taken to up so much of your husband's time . 
But he's done us proud . 
Just cast your eye your critical eye over this arm and take your pick . 
How do you like them ? Penny plain , twopence coloured . 
Has the ambulance arrived ? The voice was the voice of Berry . 
The cab's here , said another voice . 
I can see the horse's nose . 
I suddenly realized that Jonah had got the car and was just wondering what was the matter with our own brougham , when That's Daphne , said my companion . 
Was it Berry who spoke first ? I stared at her . 
Was it , lad ? she repeated . 
Yes , witch , it was . 
Why , I said , you're cousin Madrigal , who bit me on the nose , aged four , under the nursery table . 
Are you sorry , now ? I did it in self defence , lad . 
What was I doing ? You tried to kiss me . 
The coachman had begun to undress again , and it was very dark . 
That was a long time ago , I said wistfully . 
Once bitten , twice shy , she said . 
As I kissed her , the light went up in the hall . 
Put not your faith in proverbs , said I. Dr . 
Hullo , said the worthy leech . 
Bring forth your dead , said I. He laughed heartily . 
Have you come for them ? We have . 
Allow me introduce my cousin . 
How are the deceased ? Flourishing , replied the leech . 
I took eleven out of your sister . 
And fourteen out of Berry that's twenty five . 
I say , there's no chance of their getting bee hydrophobia , is there ? And stinging us , or anything ? At this moment Daphne appeared , smelling like a consulting room . 
Why , Madrigal darling , so Boy brought you to fetch us back did he ? I'm so awfully sorry Berry and I weren't there for dinner . 
I hope Boy entertained you properly . 
Then Madrigal , were you ? Daphne was staring at me . 
So our brougham had been sent to fetch . 
Madrigal laid her band on my arm . 
It's all right , Daphne dear . 
As I was going home to dress about half past seven , I met Boy Hurrying ? said Daphne . 
Now I come to think of it , he was walking rather A nice brisk pace , said I. Be quiet , said Daphne , or I'Il sting you . 
Well , resumed Madrigal , I met him and he explained About dinner ? About dinner . 
So we didn't either of us dress . 
In fact we didn't dine either we were er . 
So anxious about you and Berry , I suggested . 
My brother in law put his head round the door and looked at me . 
I remember , he said slowly , I remember catching a fleeting glance a very fleeting glance of the anxious look upon your face as you cleared the second celery bed . 
At the time I thought but never mind . 
I now realize that the solicitude there portrayed was on our account . 
Woman , I fear we judged your brother too hastily . 
I was going for assistance , I said . 
And lost your way , said Berry . 
He turned to his wife M'dear , I'm afraid he will always remain a worm . 
Make it toads , said I. It's safer . 
CHAPTER IX A POINT OF HONOUR The point is I began . 
The girl looked up quickly . 
What ? This , said I. Would you be alarmed or offended if I put my services Such as they are . 
Such as they are , thank you , at your disposal ? Is that an offer or a question ? Neither , said I. It's a point . 
What does one do with points ? One deals with them . 
Well , you can see what you can do , if you like . 
You mustn't be rough with the bag . 
It's sensitive , for all that it's made of pigskin . 
May I have the alleged key ? Thank you . 
It is not by force , but by persuasion , that I ahem gain my points . 
I should think you're an only child . 
I am , I said . 
We were in a first class compartment on the London South Western Railway , rushing away from London , down to Dorsetshire , with its heights and woodland and its grey stone walls . 
The other occupant of the carriage an aged member of the House of Lords after regarding us with disapproval for ninety miles , had left the train at the last station . 
Then my lady had turned to her nice new dressing bag and had sought to open it . 
In vain she had inserted a key . 
In vain she had attempted to insert other keys , obviously too large . 
Therein she had shown her feminism . 
I love to see a woman do a womanly thing . 
Finally she had sighed and pushed her dark hair back from her temples with a gesture of annoyance . 
The time seeming ripe , I had spoken . 
Now I turned to the obstructive wards . 
All she had done was to double lock it , and I had it open in a moment . 
I was brought up as a burglar . 
What a blessed thing the old earl's left us . 
You see if I had offered my services such as they are in his presence , he would probably have challenged me , and stuck your glove in his hat . 
He looked rather like it , didn't he ? And , of course , according to his lights , you should still be endeavouring to pull the alarm cord . 
Instead of which You are going to put your feet up and smoke one of my cigarettes . 
It's not a smoking carriage so you'll be able to taste the tobacco . 
Is this another point ? she said , smiling . 
No , said I. It's a certainty . 
Her dark hair was smooth and shining and full of lights and set off her fresh complexion to perfection . 
This was not at all brown , but her eyes were . 
Great , big ones these , with a star in each of them for laughter . 
Her nose turned up ever so slightly , and she had a little way of tilting her dainty chin , as if to keep it company . 
Presently she looked at me through the smoke . 
Are you going to Whinnerley ? she said . 
To the Hall ? Even as you are . 
How did you know ? The sensitive bag had a label . 
Oh , I believe you're one of Berry and Co . 
Look here , I said , you mustn't judge me by my company . 
If my relatives and connections by marriage like to make themselves infamous , that is no fault of mine . 
They have made their beds . 
Let them lie on them . 
I will recline upon my humble , but separate couch . 
What have they done ? Notorious wrong . 
Only last week , for instance , they mocked me . 
No ? They did , indeed during the savoury . 
As part owner , I craved a seat in the car . 
Who was I ? To day , they drive from Norfolk to Dorset . 
But for their swabhood they would have picked me up in London on the way . 
She sat up with a cry . 
Oh , take it off ! Take it off ! Its taste Bother its taste . 
Take it off ! Is it crawling Up ? Yes . 
Obediently , she drew her dress close about her , perhaps half an inch below a knee that Artemis might have been proud to display . 
I let the wasp reach the dark blue cloth . 
As I put him out of the window , he naturally stung me . 
Before I had time to apologize for the expletive which escaped me , she had caught my hand . 
Which finger is it ? The second . 
South and by east of the nail . 
Shall I press the poison out ? You can amputate it and sear the stump if you like . 
Good heavens , your necklace is undone at the back . 
It isn't ? It is really . 
Well , do it up with your left hand . 
I'll attend to the sting . 
It was at this interesting juncture that the door opened and a footman stood in the August afternoon sunshine , touching his cap and staring fixedly down the platform . 
On a station lamp was 'Whinnerley Bluff' . 
How we got out of the train and into the car , neither of us ever knew . 
When I recovered my senses , she was sitting as far away as possible in an open landaulette , staring at my dressing case and her bag , and moaning . 
Whatever must they think ? Whatever must they think ? They can't think we've been married long , said I musingly . 
They only do that sort of thing on the honeymoon . 
I wouldn't mind if they thought we were married , but they know we aren't . 
Here some children cheered as we went by . 
She bowed abstractedly , and I raised my hat , as in a trance . 
What's this village ? I said . 
Oh , Whinnerley , I suppose . 
Where are we going ? said I. As I spoke , we swung through lodge gates I had never seen before , while two gardeners and a smiling woman beamed delightedly upon us . 
We stared at them in return . 
This wasn't the Hall , and it wasn't Whinnerley . 
The car must have been sent to meet somebody else somebody like us . 
And we I think we saw the streamer at the same moment . 
It was a large white one , slung across the curling drive from one tree to another . 
On it were the words Welcome to the Happy Pair . 
As we left it behind , we turned and faced one another . 
It was all as clear as daylight . 
We were the wrong pair . 
The right pair had never come . 
We had travelled in their 'engaged' carriage . 
We had alighted at their station Whinnerley Bluff doubtless some new halt , built since my last visit . 
We were in their car . 
We had received cheers and smiles meant for them . 
We were being greeted by a banner for them set up . 
And we were on the point of arriving at the house lent to them for their honeymoon . 
Suddenly my companion's words flashed across my mind . 
I wouldn't mind if they thought we were married . 
Do you see what has happened ? I said . 
They think we're a married couple married this morning . 
Let them go on thinking it . 
Play up , I cried . 
You know what you said just now . 
Well , here's our chance . 
Only play up for an hour or two . 
The real ones can't arrive before seven . 
There isn't a train before then . 
We can slip away after tea . 
Whinnerley proper can't be far . 
Play up , my dear , play up . 
It's a chance in a lifetime . 
A wonderful light came into her eyes . 
Shall we ? she whispered . 
She looked away suddenly over the sunlit park . 
Then she spoke very slowly . 
I'm trusting you rather a lot , aren't I ? she said . 
Yes , I said quietly . 
But since you make such a point I took her hand . 
As I raised it , she turned , and we looked each other full in the eyes . 
Said I This point is a point of honour . 
Then I kissed her small , gloved fingers . 
There it lay , in the hot sunshine , all grey and warm and peaceful a perfect specimen of the Tudor period , and about its walls a tattered robe of wisteria . 
It seemed to be smiling in its sleep . 
As we drove up to the great stone steps , the studded door was opened and a manservant appeared . 
Oh , I'm afraid , whispered my companion . 
Play up , I whispered back . 
I don't know what to say to them . 
The footman opened the door , and I got out . 
As I handed her out , her hand was trembling terribly . 
Suddenly there was a scrambling noise , and a great black and white Newfoundland came bounding down the steps . 
When he saw us , he stopped . 
The dog looked at her for a moment uncertainly . 
Then he threw up his head and barked twice , wagging his tail . 
She put out her hand and stroked his head . 
The great fellow whined with pleasure . 
Then he took her hand in his mouth and turned up the steps once more . 
Oh , look ! she cried delightedly . 
As I entered the hall He has taken to your ladyship , a gentle housekeeper was saying . 
It's not many he welcomes like that . 
The woman bowed to me , and turned towards the staircase . 
Mechanically I took the two letters from the salver the footman was holding out . 
Then I thought of something . 
I looked at the girl . 
She was half way up the stairs . 
Er darling , I said . 
She swung round and stopped , flushing furiously . 
Then Yes , dear ? I went to where she was standing . 
The housekeeper was twenty paces away at the top of the stairs . 
I spoke as carelessly as I could , and in an undertone . 
They will want to unpack your things . 
Also they will soon know that there is no luggage . 
Ours , of course , went on to Whinnerley proper . 
Say your maid is coming on with it by the next train , and that she will unpack when she comes . 
I returned to the hall . 
Not to be outdone by the housekeeper , the footman was most solicitous . 
He led me to an oak panelled lavatory , turned on the water , and held a towel ready while I washed . 
Then he brushed me all over , and flicked the dust from my shoes . 
With the slightest encouragement , I believe he would have shaved me . 
Then he led me to the 'reception rooms' in turn . 
When the tour was over , he brought me cigarettes and asked me if I would like tea served in the garden . 
By all means , I said . 
Tell her ladyship she will find me out of doors . 
I passed through the dining room and on to a great lawn . 
The garden was in exquisite order . 
Everywhere there was a profusion of flowers , and on all sides beyond a sunk fence lay the great park . 
Far in a cool glade I saw some deer browsing . 
On the left , I could see the drive by which we had come . 
Lazily I traced its line curling away between the trees . 
Suddenly something red and moving caught my eye . 
For a moment the trees hid it from view . 
Then I saw it again just a flash of red in the avenue moving towards the house . 
It approached a small gap . 
The next second there appeared a telegraph boy upon a red bicycle . 
Instinctively I started to head him off . 
I had to run to do it , but I prayed that no one was looking . 
We reached the gate house together . 
Telegram ? said I. He dismounted and gave it to me like a lamb . 
It was addressed to Maulfry Tower , Winningly Bluff , and it read Missed train arrive . 
No answer , said I. Then I remembered the cheering children , and gave him a shilling . 
He thanked me shyly and sped away to the lodge gates . 
I turned to see the girl approaching , and went to meet her . 
For him , ginger beer , said I for us , tea . 
For them , when they arrive , the wagonette . 
They will not send the car for your maid . 
But , never mind , they have a good time coming . 
Isn't it all beautiful ! Of course , said she , after this I shall go into a convent that is , after I have served my term of imprisonment . 
I can never face the world again . 
Why again ? said I. You see , my dear , we're not facing it now . 
If we were , it would be different . 
But now we're in a backwater . 
In an hour or two we shall be on the broad stream of Life once more . 
The current is very strong sometimes . 
But here there is no current , nor any time , nor action . 
Only the sun makes shining patches on the water , while now and again dragon flies dart through the sleepy hum of insect life , like bright thoughts flashing across a reverie . 
Now , isn't that nice ? I really don't know how I do it . 
No one knew of our turning aside no one will see us return . 
For us the universe is standing still . 
Come , madam wife , sit by my side , and let the world slip we shall ne'er be younger . 
She looked at me critically , bending her brows . 
Then I should never have married you , she said , if I had known there was insanity in your family . 
Tea was set out under the trees on the lawn , between the house and the drive . 
On three sides roses and honey suckle screened the table from view . 
The fourth lay open to the sinking sun and the park and the distant hills . 
The footman had been joined by a butler , who bowed at our approach . 
In silence she poured out the tea . 
Then Sugar ? she said , without thinking . 
Ahem ! Not to day , thanks , dear . 
I had mine in the champagne . 
As the footman handed me the cucumber sandwiches , his hand shook a little . 
I went on ruthlessly Talking of which , did you notice the detectives ? No , she said . 
What about them ? Wall eyed , my dear , all of them . 
Cost me two and six extra , but I thought it was worth it . 
Worries the thieves awfully , you know . 
They can't tell whether they're watching the fish slice or the 'Longfellow' . 
And all the time they're really counting the marron glaces . 
It's called 'getting the wall eye . 
I stooped to straighten my spat . 
When I looked up , the servants had disappeared . 
I glanced through the leaves to see them pass into the dining room . 
Gone ? said the girl . 
Thank goodness ! And now , who are you ? I believe one is supposed to get to know one's husband on the honeymoon . 
I took one of the letters the footman had given me out of my pocket . 
I am , said I , Sir Peter Tagel . 
That's why you're 'my lady' . 
Is it really ? And now , your alias ? I'll tell you when we separate . 
Meanwhile , I do hope I shall make you happy . 
When the time comes I shall win you bread . 
To do this I shall , of course , have to leave your side . 
Till then but I fear my thoughtless reference to our parting has unnerved you . 
I am your man your husband . 
Where's that come from ? Surrey , I should think . 
I frowned at my cigarette . 
I don't think you're honouring me enough , I said . 
Then I caught her cool , left hand . 
From the third finger a plain gold ring winked at me . 
Till we arrived at the house , her hands had been gloved . 
I balanced her hand in my palm , and looked at her . 
There is , I said , a question . 
Are you married ? You've been telling me I am for the last half hour . 
Yes , but are you really ? Peter , dear ! This in a tone of gentle rebuke . 
And you're going to win me bread , you know nice brown bread . 
I rose , and stood in front of her . 
Still the faint smile on the red mouth . 
Look at me , I commanded . 
It wasn't an 'obey' marriage , was it ? This dreamily . 
Then she put her hands on my shoulders . 
Oh , Saint Anthony , I whispered . 
Then I'll tell you when we separate , she said . 
For one dear , short half hour we had wandered in the park . 
The sunshot glades hung out an invitation it would have been churlish to refuse . 
Sir Peter and his lady taking the air . 
And the sun was low . 
Somehow it seemed such a pity . 
I glanced at my companion . 
Why is everything all wrong ? I said suddenly . 
Is it ? Of course it is . 
Haven't we got to slink away and leave all this ? My dear , it's all utterly wrong . 
The time is out of joint dislocated , It isn't really , Peter . 
I looked at her quickly . 
Her eyes were wide open now , and very bright . 
You're right , lass , said I. If one goes up a backwater , I suppose one's got to come down again . 
Only Only it's been a rather short backwater , hasn't it ? It has been very sunny , Peter . 
A pause , then It was sweet of you to say that , I said . 
But , as I spoke , I did not look at her . 
A clock chimed the three quarters . 
A moment later we were arranging our escape . 
When retrieved , our impedimenta would consist of her parasol and dressing bag , and my dressing case . 
My stick and gloves were in the hall , and I decided to let them go . 
Her bag was in a fair bedroom a little brass knocker upon the door hard by the top of the staircase . 
She had heard them put my case in the room adjoining . 
She was to sit loll , if she liked in the arbour , where tea had been served , while I ventured indoors and secured the luggage . 
Once across the lawn , I was to drop it over the sunk fence close to the drive . 
Together we could then stroll towards the lodge gates . 
Then we could scramble over the oak palisade into the road . 
As I strolled towards the dining room , wheels crunched on the gravel drive . 
I turned to see a wagonette swinging down the avenue . 
) Then I took a five pound note from my case and slipped it into the envelope . 
I addressed the latter , and put it with the two letters and the telegram on the dressing table . 
On my way indoors and upstairs I had encountered no one . 
Incidentally , I should not have minded if I had . 
But now it was a very different matter . 
Mentally and physically the luggage embarrassed me . 
My appearance proclaimed an exodus suggested a flight . 
Of course , if I did meet a servant , I should try and bluff my way out but There was no doubt about it this was one of the tighter places . 
Then I put the parasol under my arm and opened the door . 
I picked up her bag and my case , and started . 
I am sure there is not another edifice in England with so many creaking boards . 
They shrieked beneath me at every step . 
At the top of the stairs I put down the luggage and listened carefully . 
As yet there were no lights burning , and it was more than dusk in the hall below . 
I wiped the sweat off my forehead , and began the descent . 
At the bottom I ran into the footman . 
He was very nice about it , though I am certain the dressing case bruised his shin . 
Then Excuse me , sir , he said , and switched on the light . 
And with the light came the brain wave . 
I want the car at once , I said . 
There's been some terrible mistake . 
I don't know whose it is . 
The label on this bag says 'Whinnerley Hall' , and that's not my dressing case . 
I'm not even sure that this is her ladyship's parasol . 
Not not yours , sir ? Certainly not . 
I flung them down in the hall . 
Never seen them before in my life . 
Order the car , man order the car . 
I want to take them back to the station and find out what's become of our own . 
When the housekeeper appeared , breathless , I was sitting on a table , swinging the parasol and smoking angrily . 
Is the car coming ? I demanded . 
Yes , indeed , sir . 
It'll be round in a moment . 
What a dreadful thing to have happened , sir . 
I can't understand Neither can I , except that they're both something like our things . 
But look at that label . 
This isn't Whinnerley Hall , is it ? No , indeed , sir . 
Well , have them put in the car . 
I'll go and find her ladyship . 
I'm afraid she'll be terribly upset . 
I flung out of the house . 
Thirty seconds later I was explaining things to an open mouthed girl in the arbour . 
As I finished , I heard the car coming round from the garage . 
I glanced at my watch . 
With any luck we shall just catch the seven ten on to Whinnerley . 
Remember , you're terribly upset and simply frantic about your jewellery , especially the tiara Uncle George gave you . 
Do you think you could cry ? I should have to kiss you then . 
The next minute we were in the car , rushing down the avenue . 
There was the white banner , hanging very still now , for the faint breeze had died with the day . 
As we approached the lodge gates I leaned forward and looked across her she was on my right looked away over the park to where the sun had set . 
Sic transit , said I. Good bye , backwater , said she . 
Her voice was not unsteady , but there was that in her tone that made me look at her . 
As the car swung out of the gates , our hands touched . 
I took hers in mine and held it . 
It was the left hand , but there was no ring upon its fingers . 
So we sat for two minutes or more . 
Then Do you think they would see ? I said , glancing at the chauffeur and groom . 
But But what , darling ? It wouldn't matter very much if they did , would it ? We reached the station simultaneously with the seven ten . 
As the groom opened the door Come along , dear . 
Turning to the servant , Bring the bag and the dressing case , I added . 
Quick ! Yes , sir . 
A small boy waved an implement and uttered a feeble protest about tickets , but we thrust past him on to the platform . 
There I looked round wildly . 
Where's Delphine ? I cried . 
I don't believe she's come , wailed my companion . 
I turned to the groom . 
You'd better go back , I said . 
Put those things down and go back to the car , in case we miss her ladyship's maid . 
Don't let her go off in the wagonette . 
He put the luggage on a seat and ran back to the exit . 
Exactly opposite to where we were standing was a first class carriage . 
As the guard's whistle was blown Have you got my bag , Peter ? said a plaintive voice . 
Yes , m'dear , and Sir Peter and Lady Tagel passed down the platform . 
The train began to move . 
The last lap , said Berry . 
Courage , my travel stained comrades . 
Where was it we broke down ? Oh , yes , Scrota Gruff . 
Such a sweet name , so full of promise , so Then he took his head in and pulled up the window . 
Fancy you two being in the next carriage all the time , said Daphne . 
I expect Boy's introduced himself , Julia dear . 
Yes , I thought so . 
Still for what it's worth , my brother Lady Julia Lory . 
Which is why she's 'my lady' . 
Though she always says it isn't . 
CHAPTER X PRIDE GOETH BEFORE Who is Silvia ? What is she ? That all her swains commend he . 
Holy , fair , and wise is she The heaven such grace did lend her , That she might admired be . 
The song and its melody floated out into the night , away and over the sleeping countryside . 
In no way breaking the silence rising up out of it , rather . 
It was as if Nature dreamed as she lay sleeping , a dream clear cut , melodious . 
Over all the moon hung full , turning the world to silver . 
Never had music so fairy a setting . 
It was for Fladstadt that I was making . 
That was the Bairlings' nearest town . 
Martin , lay twenty odd miles from Fladstadt . 
But in the town people would show me the way . 
Martin I should find Daphne and the others , newly come from Vienna this afternoon . 
Friends of Jonah's , the Bairlings . 
None of us others knew them . 
At ten o'clock in the morning I had slid out of Trieste , reckoning to reach Fladstadt in twelve hours . 
And , till I lost my way , I had come well . 
I had lost it at half past nine and only discovered that I had lost it an hour later . 
It was too late to turn back then . 
I tried to get on and across by by roads always a dangerous game . 
Just when I was getting desperate I had chanced on a signpost pointing to the town I sought . 
The next moment one of the tires had gone . 
The puncture I did not mind , The car had detachable wheels , and one was all ready , waiting to be used . 
But when I found that I had no jack . 
Better men than I would have sworn . 
The imperturbable Jonah would have stamped about the road . 
As for Berry , with no one there to suffer his satire , suppressed enmity would have brought about a collapse . 
He would probably have lost his memory . 
There was nothing for it , but to drive slowly forward on the flat tire . 
Accordingly , I had gone on . 
For the first five miles I had not lighted on so much as a barn . 
Then suddenly I had swung round a bend of the road to see a great white mansion right ahead of me . 
The house stood solitary by the roadside , dark woods rising steep behind . 
No light came from its windows . 
Turreted , white walled , dark roofed in the moonlight , it might have been the outpost of some fairy town . 
Round the bend I had crept , close to the white facade . 
As I turned , I saw a light above me , shining out over a low balcony of stone . 
I had stopped the car and the engine , and stepped on tiptoe to the other side of the road . 
From there I could see the ceiling of a tall , first floor room , whose wide , open windows led on to the balcony . 
I saw no figure , no shadow . 
For a minute or two I had heard no sound . 
Then , with no warning , had come an exquisite touching of keys and a girl's voice . 
To her let us garlands bring . 
The melody faded and ceased . 
The refrain melted into the silence . 
For a moment I stood still , my eyes on the balcony above . 
Then I slipped noiselessly to the car , picked up a rug from the back seat and laid it , folded small , on the edge of the car's back . 
Half on the padded leather and half on the cape hood , strapped tight , I laid it . 
Standing upon this perilous perch , I was just able to lay my fingers upon the cold edge of the balcony's floor . 
With an effort I could grasp one of the stone balusters . 
An idea occurred to me , and I got carefully down . 
One of the luggage carrier's straps was six feet long . 
I had it loose in a moment . 
A minute later and I had wheedled it round the baluster I could clutch . 
Buckled , it made a loop three feet in length that would have supported a bullock . 
I was about to soar , when I remembered the car . 
I jumped down once more , turned the key of the switch , and slipped it into my pocket . 
No one could steal her now . 
The next second I had my foot in the thong . 
I sat on the coping , looking into the room . 
Broad and lofty it was , its walls hung with a fair blue paper . 
A handsome tapestry , looped up a little on one side , masked the tall double doors , and in the far corner stood a great tiled stove for burning wood . 
From the ceiling was hanging a basin of alabaster an electric fitting , really . 
The powerful light of its hidden lamps spread , softened , all about the chamber . 
The blue walls bore a few reproductions of famous pictures . 
Meisonnier seemed in high favour , while Sir Joshua's Nellie O'Brien surveyed the salon with her quiet , steady gaze . 
A great bowl of fresh flowers stood on the grand piano . 
The girl herself was sitting half on the edge of an old gate table in the middle of the room . 
The toe of one rosy slipper touched the polished boards , and her other foot swung gently to and fro . 
One of her short sleeves she had pushed up to the shoulder and was looking critically at a scratch , which showed red , high up on her round , white arm . 
A simple evening frock of old rose colour , dainty old gold slippers to keep her feet . 
Her skin was wonderfully white , her hair dark and brown . 
This was cut straight across her forehead in French fashion , and then brought down and away over the ears . 
Her face was towards me , as she examined her arm . 
I could see she was very pretty . 
Don't you think you ought to apologize ? she said suddenly . 
Her words took me by surprise . 
For a moment I did not answer . 
Eh ? she said , looking up . 
Yes , I said , I do . 
Fact is , I haven't any , and the gardens are all shut now . 
Any what ? she said , letting the sleeve slip back into its place . 
She smiled for an instant . 
Then How dare you come up like this ? I wanted to see what Silvia was like . 
She stifled a little yawn . 
You heard me say she was holy , fair and wise . 
And excelling , I know . 
But the second verse asks , Is she kind as she is fair ? Well ? I came up to see if she was . 
And is she ? I don't think she is quite . 
Can you get down all right ? In fact , I'm sure she isn't , I said . 
But then What ? She'd have to be most awfully kind to be that , Silvia . 
I say , said Silvia . 
Yes ? I said , with one leg over the balustrade . 
As you're here , if you would like to come in and sit down for a little I mean , I don't want to seem inhospitable . 
I knew it , said I. I knew she was , really . 
Thank you very , very much all the same . 
I've found out what I wanted to know . 
I slipped over the coping and set my foot in the thong . 
There was a rustle of silk and a quick step on the balcony . 
Then two soft hands took hold of my wrists . 
I looked up at the big eyes , the face white in the moonlight , the dark , straight cut hair . 
Who are you and where do you come from ? My name's Valentine , said I. I am a gentleman of Verona . 
Be serious , she said . 
I told her my name and spoke of my run from Trieste , adding that I sought Fladstadt and St . 
She heard me in silence . 
Then Are you tired ? she said quietly . 
Then I tell you that you may come in and rest for a while . 
Yes , and talk to me . 
Presently you can go on . 
I will show you the way . 
She let go my wrists and stood up , clasping her hands behind her head . 
You're very hospit It isn't a question of hospitality or anything else , she said slowly . 
I just tell you that you may come in if you want to . 
I gazed at the slim , straight figure , the bare bent arms , the soft white throat . 
Then I drew myself up and bestrode the coping . 
Of course , I said , this is a dream . 
In reality I am fast asleep in the car . 
Possibly I have met with an accident and am still unconscious . 
Yet your hands felt warm . 
And your wrists very cold , sir . 
Come along in and sit down . 
Even if you are dreaming I suppose you'll be able to drink some coffee if I give it you . 
If you give it me . 
I drew up the thong and followed her into the room . 
She motioned me to sit in a deep chair and put cigarettes by my side . 
Then she lighted the lamps that were set beneath two little silver coffee pots , standing on a tray on the gate table . 
I watched her in silence . 
When the lamps were burning , she turned and seated herself on the table as I had seen her first . 
She regarded me curiously , swinging that little right leg . 
I shouldn't have liked you to think me unkind , she said , with a grave smile . 
I rose to my feet . 
Sir I do not know what to say . 
Yet I want to say something . 
I think you are very gentle , Silvia . 
Silvia spread out deprecating white arms and bowed low . 
I doubt it , she said . 
But I know he would have given me a cigarette . 
I beg your pardon , said I , handing her the box . 
When I had given her a light , she turned again to the coffee . 
It ought to be hot enough now , I think . 
D'you mind using my cup ? I don't take sugar . 
It will be a privilege , Silvia . 
The hot cafe au lait was very grateful . 
Despite the season , my long drive through the mountain air had left me a little cold . 
I took my seat on an arm of the deep chair . 
Outside , somewhere close at hand , a clock struck twelve . 
The congestion between here and Villach is a disgrace . 
I met three carts in the last forty odd miles myself . 
Can't something be done about it ? And the curiosity of cold wristed burglars By the way , I can't get over your climbing up like that , you know . 
It's all right , as it happens , and I'm rather glad you did , but this might have been a bedroom or or anything . 
But then , you see , you very seldom find a piano in the bathroom nowadays , Silvia . 
Incidentally , what a sweet room this is . 
Do you like my pictures ? Awfully . 
Especially the one on the gate table . 
My lady blew smoke out of a faint smile . 
Then If it comes to that , there's rather a good one on the arm of your chair , she said . 
By the same artist , too . 
But the one on the table knocks it . 
That'll be hung on the line year after year . 
What line ? At the Academy of Hearts . 
I beg your pardon , my dear . 
Silvia threw back her dainty head and laughed merrily . 
Presently But the one on the table's damaged , she said . 
Didn't you see the scratch ? And the one on the chair wants cleaning badly . 
In its present state they wouldn't hang it anywhere except at Pentonville . 
How did you get it ? Ah ! That was the Marquis . 
We were by the window , and when you slipped that strap round , he jumped like anything . 
He was in my arms , you see . 
The Marquis is a Blue Persian . 
These foreign titles , I murmured scornfully . 
Don't be patronizing , said Silvia . 
You know where Pride goes . 
Besides , I've met some very nice counts . 
So've I. Barons , too . 
The last I struck's doing seven years now . 
But you're English , Silvia . 
English , d'you hear ? I'll bet they're all over you out here . 
I'm a fool , but I don't like to think of your I mean , I'd rather be an English er Burglar ? We both laughed , and I got up . 
Silvia , I said , tell me the best way to Fladstadt and turn me out while there is yet time . 
What do you mean ? This . 
I've already been in love with you for a quarter of an hour . 
In another ten minutes I shall be sitting at your feet . 
Half an hour later You will be just running into Fladstadt . 
You can't miss the way . 
Martin ? Have you ever heard of it ? She puckered her brows . 
Isn't that where some English people have a place ? People called er Waring , is it ? Bairling , said I. Bairling . 
I'm afraid it's some miles from Fladstadt . 
And this is how far ? From Fladstadt ? About twenty three . 
Forty three miles to go , and a flat tire , I said . 
Now far's the next village ? Why ? I want to get another wheel on . 
If you like to wait here a little longer , my brother'll be back with the car . 
He's on the way from Fladstadt now . 
That's why I'm sitting up . 
He'll give you a jack . 
You're awfully good , Silvia . 
But have you forgotten what I said ? About sitting at my feet ? No , but I don't think you meant it . 
If I did , I should have rung long ago . 
Thank you , said I. Of course , she went on you're only a burglar , but you are English . 
I mightn't have been , though . 
You mean , I didn't know whether you were English or not , till after you'd climbed up ? Nor I did . 
But one of the men's up , and there's a bell push under the flap of the table . 
She slipped a hand behind her . 
I'm touching it now , she added . 
I wondered why you didn't sit in a chair , I said , with a slow smile . 
A deep flush stole over the girl's features . 
For a moment she looked at me with no laughter in her eyes . 
Then she slipped off the table and moved across the room to an open bureau . 
She seemed to look for something . 
Then she strolled back to the table and took her seat on its edge once more . 
Is that a car coming ? she said suddenly , her dark eyes on the floor . 
I don't think so , I said , and stepped out on to the balcony . 
There was no sound at all . 
It was the dead of night indeed . 
I glanced over the balustrade at the car . 
Her headlights burned steadily , making the moonlit road ahead more bright . 
I can hear nothing , I said , coming back into the boudoir . 
Look , said Silvia , pointing over my shoulder . 
As I turned , something struck me on the cheek . 
I stooped and picked it up . 
A piece of flexible cord about five inches long . 
I swung round and looked at the girl . 
On the table a pair of scissors lay by her side . 
Why have you done this ? I demanded . 
She raised her eyebrows by way of answer and reached for a cigarette . 
As she lighted it , I saw that her hand was trembling . 
Silvia , dear , surely you don't think Must you go ? It was a poor joke of mine , I know but It was . 
I don't think a count or a baron would have said such a rotten thing . 
Her eyes flashed and she was trembling all over . 
From being pretty , she had become beautiful . 
Perhaps not , said I steadily . 
But if they had , they would have meant it , Silvia . 
I coiled the flexible cord about a finger , loosed it and thrust it into my pocket . 
I'll go now , I said , as I came . 
You have been wonderfully kind , and I I have spoiled everything . 
Let's try and forget this evening . 
For you , a car passed in the night , the hum of its engine swelling up , only to fade again into the silence . 
For me , I lingered to listen to the words of a song , and when it was done , sped on into the shadows . 
I wish you hadn't cut that bell , lass . 
Why ? I walked out on to the balcony and swung myself over the coping . 
Because then I should have asked if I might kiss you . 
When I had lowered myself on to the seat of the car , I unbuckled the strap and started to pull it down . 
But the buckle caught on the baluster , and I had to stand on my old perch to reach and loosen it . 
I did so , balancing myself with one hand on the balcony's door . 
As the strap slipped free , there was a burning pain in my fingers . 
With a cry I tore them away , lost my balance , and fell sideways into the car on to the back of the front seat . 
It hurt me to breathe rather , and there was a stabbing pain in my right side . 
Are you hurt ? said a quick voice above me . 
Dazedly I raised my head . 
Silvia was leaning over the balcony , one hand to her white throat . 
I could hear her quick coming breath . 
No , I said slowly , I'm not . 
But until you tell me that you know I did not mean what I said , I will not believe that you did not mean to stand upon my fingers . 
Are you hurt , lad ? No. Did you hear what I said ? Silvia stood up , her hands before her on the coping . 
Without a word I stepped carefully out of the car . 
It was as if my side was being seared with a hot iron . 
How I started the car I shall never know . 
The effort brought me to my knees . 
Somehow I crept into my seat , took out the clutch and put in the first speed . 
Mechanically I changed into second , third , and top . 
We were going now , but the trees by the wayside seemed to be closing in on me . 
The road was really ridiculously narrow . 
I could see a corner coming . 
My head began to swim , and I felt the near wheel rise on the bank . 
I wrenched the car round , took out the clutch and dragged the lever into neutral . 
As I jammed on the hand brake , I seemed to see many lights . 
Then came the noise of a horn , cries , and the sound of tires tearing at the road . 
I fell forward and fainted . 
Somewhere at hand was my sister's faint perfume I opened my eyes . 
Hullo , Boy ! said Jill , her small , cool hand on my forehead . 
Better , darling ? said Daphne , brushing my cheek with soft lips . 
I'm all right , I said , raising myself on my left elbow . 
Still the stabbing pain in my right side . 
Where are we ? In the hall at St . 
How did it all happen ? How did I get here ? I asked . 
And you I don't understand . 
We nearly ran you down , old chap . 
About a quarter of a mile from here , towards Fladstadt . 
But why were you driving away ? I stared at him . 
Driving away ? I said slowly . 
Then There were quick steps and the rustling of a dress . 
What is it , Bi ? Tell me . 
Who's hurt ? It's all right , m'dear , said the man's voice . 
Mrs. Pleydell's brother's met with an accident . 
We found him in the road . 
This is my sister , Mrs. Pleydell . 
How d'you do ? said Daphne . 
My brother seems I'm all right , I said suddenly . 
I'd lost my way , see ? And one of the tires went , just as I was passing a big white house on the left . 
I stopped under a balcony , I think . 
That's right , said Bill Bairling . 
I never knew it was St . 
I must have cut across country somehow . 
Well , there was no jack on the car so I couldn't do anything . 
Just as I was getting in again , I heard a noise above me and turned . 
My foot slipped on the step , and I fell on my side . 
Couple of ribs gone , I think . 
I tried to get on to Fladstadt . 
Is the car all right ? And you said you weren't hurt , cried Silvia , sinking on her knees by Jill . 
Was it you who asked me ? I spoke steadily , looking her full in the eyes . 
But then , you know , I don't always mean what I say . 
Then the pain surged up once more , and I fainted . 
Is she kind as she is fair ? For beauty lives with kindness . 
Love doth to her eyes repair To help him of his blindness , And , being helped , inhabits there . 
The singing was very gentle . 
Overnight the song had floated into the air , rich , full , vibrant but now a tender note had crept into the rendering , giving the melody a rare sweetness . 
My side was very sore and stiff . 
Also my head ached rather . 
Priceless voice that little girl's got . 
said Berry in a low voice . 
Isn't she a dear , too ? said Daphne Fancy giving up her own bedroom , so that we could have the salon next door . 
But I wish she wouldn't keep on reproaching herself so . 
If a girl likes to step on to her own balcony , it's not her fault if some fellow underneath falls over himself and breaks a couple of ribs . 
When's the comic leech coming back ? This afternoon , said my sister . 
But he'll wake before then . 
I don't expect he'll remember much about last night . 
I'm so thankful it's not more serious . 
How soon did he say he'd be up ? Inside a week . 
Of course , he'll be strapped up for some time . 
Fancy his going on , though . 
Must have been temporarily deranged , said my brother in law airily . 
Shock of the fall , I expect . 
Rubbish ! said his wife . 
Just because you'd have lain there , giving directions about your funeral and saying you forgave people , you think anybody's mad for trying to get on . 
Only that of his convictions , said Berry . 
You forget I've got a clean sheet . 
My discharge from the Navy was marked 'Amazing' . 
The only stain upon my character is my marriage . 
As for my escutcheon , I've shaved in it for years . 
Fool ! said his wife . 
I shall turn my face to the wall if you're not careful . 
Remember , it's not our house . 
There was a tap at the door . 
Then May I come in ? said Silvia . 
Of course you may , dear . 
It's nearly twelve , said Silvia . 
Won't you go and rest a little , and let me stay here ? You must be so tired . 
I'll call you the moment he wakes . 
It's awfully good of you But it isn't . 
The truth is , she's afraid to trust you , Miss Bairling , said Berry . 
She thinks you're going to steal his sock suspenders . 
Will you leave the room ? said my sister . 
I could hear Silvia's gentle laughter . 
Then I shall come back about one , dear , if you don't send for me before , said Daphne . 
The next moment I heard the door close , and Silvia seated herself on my left by the side of the bed . 
I opened my off eye . 
I lay in a fair , grey papered chamber , darkened , for the green shutters were drawn close about the open windows . 
Some of their slides were ajar , letting the bright sunshine slant into the room . 
There was once , I said , a fool . 
A smothered exclamation close to my left ear . 
A fool , who did everything wrong . 
He lost his way , his heart , his head , and , last of all , his b balance . 
But then he was only a fool . 
But he was English , she murmured . 
And there was another fool , said Silvia . 
A much bigger one , really , because , although she never lost her way or her head or her balance , she lost something much more precious . 
But not her voice , said I. And the fools went together to Scotland Yard , and there they found the way and the head and the balance and the temper . 
But not the heart , Silvia . 
Plural , said Silvia , softly . 
I opened my near eye and turned my head . 
The first thing I saw was a rosy arm , lying on the edge of my pillow . 
I say , I whispered . 
Quarter of an hour later I entered the dining room . 
I said so , said Daphne . 
I know , said I , frowning . 
You don't even know what I said . 
I know that some surmise of yours has proved correct , which is enough . 
The coffee really was hot . 
After drinking a little , my smile returned . 
Tell him , said Berry . 
We've been thinking it over , said Daphne , and we've come to the conclusion that you'd better call . 
On whom ? For what ? Be call boy . 
I rose to my feet . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I said , I have to thank you this day it is meant for a day , isn't it I for the honour you have done me . 
Although I can scarcely hope to sustain the role in a manner worthy of the best traditions of We'd cast you for something else , if it was safe , said Daphne . 
You don't really think I'm going to call , do you ? Why not ? And have to stand in the wings while you all get crowds of cabbages and things . 
Not much ! I've been relying on this show ever since Berry trod on the big marrow . 
Well , of course , there is Buckingham , said Berry . 
Or the soothsayer , said Jill . 
You are now talking , I said . 
Soothsaying is one of my fortes my Martello tower , in fact . 
Of course , Hurlingham Buckingham , stupid ! Well , Buckingham , then , has his points . 
Whom does he espouse ? He doesn't espouse anyone . 
Whom does he love , then ? Berry and Daphne looked uneasily at one another . 
I turned to Jonah , who was deep in The Sportsman . 
Who's Buckingham in love with , Jonah Down and four to play . 
What ? said that worthy . 
Oh , Buckingham ? He's hanging round the Queen mostly , I think , but he's got two or three other irons in the fire . 
I will play Hurl Buckingham , said I. When Berry had finished , I reminded him that he had suggested the part , and that my mind was made up . 
That's right , I said . 
Let me have a copy of the play . 
Berry rose and walked towards the door . 
With his fingers on the handle , he turned . 
If you don't know what some of the hard words mean , he said , I shall be in the library . 
Why in the library ? said Daphne . 
I'm going to write in another scene . 
Another scene ? Well , an epilogue , then . 
What's it going to be ? Buckingham s murder , said Berry . 
I can see it all . 
It will be hideously realistic . 
All women and children will have to leave the theatre . 
As he went out I expect the Duke will fight desperately , said I. Berry put his head round the door . 
No , he said , that's the dastardly part of it . 
It is from behind that his brains are dashed out with a club . 
I stretched out my hand for a roll . 
Do you know how a log falls ? said Berry . 
Because , if I could not get Daphne to see that , if Berry had not withdrawn his head , the roll would not have hit the Sargent . 
The good works of which Daphne is sometimes full occasionally overflow and deluge those in her immediate vicinity . 
A local institution , whose particular function has for the moment escaped me , suddenly required funds . 
Perhaps I should say that it was suddenly noised abroad that this was the case , for it was one of the kind that is always in this uncomfortable plight . 
At any rate , in a burst of generosity , Daphne had undertaken that we would get up a show . 
When she told us of her involving promise , we were appalled . 
A show ? gasped Jonah . 
You know , a show , display . 
We are to exhibit us to a horrified assembly . 
But , Daphne darling , said Jill . 
What have you done ? It's all right , said my sister . 
We can do a play . 
A little one , you know , and the Merrows will help . 
Of course , said Berry . 
Some telling trifle or other . 
Can't we dramatize 'The Inchcape Rock' ? Excellent , said I. I should like to play the abbot . 
It would be rather suitable , too . 
If you remember , 'they blest the Abbot of Aberbrothok . 
Why not ? said Berry . 
We could have a very fervent little scene with them all blessing you . 
And perhaps Heath Robinson would paint the scenery . 
There were one or two strong situations , relieved by some quite creditable light comedy , and all the 'curtains' were good . 
The village hall , complete with alleged stage , was engaged , and half the county were blackmailed into taking tickets . 
There were only twelve characters , of which we accounted for five , and it was arranged that we should all twelve foregather four days beforehand , to rehearse properly . 
The other seven artists were to stay with us at White Ladies for the rehearsals and performance , and generally till the affair had blown over . 
It was ten days before the date of the production that I was cast for Buckingham . 
Six days to become word perfect . 
Have pity upon our animal life ! cried Berry , when I made known my intention . 
Consider the flora and fauna of our happy shire ! Hush , brother , said I. You know not what you say . 
I shall not seek the fields . 
We don't want you hauled up for sheep worrying just now . 
shall I repair to some sequestered grove . 
There , when I shall commune with myself , Nature will go astray . 
Trees will break forth into blossom , meadows will blow anew , and the voice of the turtle If you don't ring off , said Berry . 
I'll set George at you . 
George is our gorgonzola , which brings me back to Pomfret . 
Pomfret is a little two seater . 
I got him because I thought he'd be so useful just to run to and fro when the car was out . 
We made friends at Olympia , and I took to him at once . 
A fortnight later , Jill was driving him delightedly round and round in front of the house . 
After watching her for a while , Berry got in and sat down by her side . 
Not that I want a drive , he explained carefully but I want to see if my dressing case will be able to stand it as far as the station . 
If you think I began , but the next moment Jill had turned down the drive , and I watched the three go curling out of sight . 
From that day Pomfret was one of us . 
And now , with three days left to learn my words , and a copy of the play in my pocket , I drove forth into the countryside . 
When I had idly covered about twenty miles , I turned down a little lane and pulled up by the side of a still wood . 
I stopped the engine and listened . 
I left the road and strolled in among the trees till I came to where one lay felled , making a little space . 
It was a sunshiny morning in October , and summer was dying hard . 
The pleasant place suited my purpose well , and for twenty minutes I wrestled with the powerful little scene Jonah had written between the Queen and Buckingham . 
Then I started on the love scene again . 
'Madam , it is said that I am a harsh man . 
I am not harsh to every one . 
Better for me , perhaps , if I were yet so God made me . 
When do you open ? That's wrong , said I. 'Can you be gentle , then ? comes after that . 
I don't know what you mean , but thanks all the same , and if Pomfret doesn't mind , this tree is rather grubby . 
I got the rug and spread it on the fallen trunk for her . 
She was what the Irish are popularly believed to call 'a shlip of a ghirl , clad in a dark blue riding habit that fitted her slim figure beautifully . 
No hat covered her thick , blue black hair , which was parted in the middle and loosely knotted behind . 
Here and there a wisp of it was in the act of escaping . 
Merry grey eyes and the softest colouring , with a small red mouth , ready to join the eyes in their laughter if its owner listed . 
She was wearing natty little patent leather boots , and her hunting hat and crop lay on the log by her side . 
She sat down and began to pull the gloves off a pair of small brown hands . 
Do you know if cats ever drink water ? she said musingly . 
From what I remember of last year's statistics , there was , I believe , a marked decrease in the number of alcoholism cases reported as occurring amongst that species . 
I'm speaking off hand , you know . 
Never mind that it's very good hearing . 
I know , and , talking of tight ropes , Alice , have you seen the March Hare lately ? She threw her head back and laughed merrily . 
Then We are fools , you know , she said . 
Still , a little folly Is a dangerous thing . 
And , now , when do you open ? To morrow week . 
And , owing to the iniquitous provisions of the new Shops Act , foisted by a reckless Government upon a You can cut that bit . 
We close the same night . 
Positively for one performance only ? Exactly . 
And that's why I shall only just be able to get you a seat . 
The knell of acetylene gas has sounded . 
You've only got a few lines , I suppose ? I looked at her sorrowfully . 
Whose rug is she sitting on ? I said . 
Pomfret is but the bailee of the rug , Alice . 
Talking of what , did you say ? For a second I hesitated . 
Then Gnats , I said . 
She turned and resumed her place on the fallen tree . 
Now you're going on with your rehearsal , she announced . 
Will you read the cues ? Give me the book . 
I showed her the point I had reached when she entered . 
You are the Queen , I said . 
It's rather confusing , because I had thought you were Alice but it can't be helped . 
Besides , you came on just before you did , really , and you've spoken twice before you opened your small red mouth . 
Is that how it describes the Queen ? This suspiciously . 
I was really thinking of Alice , but But what ? The Queen has got a delicate , white throat . 
How can you tell ? I've got a stock on . 
I said the Queen had . 
No , but you're sitting on Pomfret's rug , and Pomfret is but the She began to laugh helplessly . 
Come along , Alice , I said . 
'Yet so God made me . 
Now you say , 'Can you be gentle , then ? and give me the glad eye . 
It only says 'archly' here , in brackets . 
Same thing , said I 'Can you be gentle , then ? A pause . 
Then Go on , she said . 
I'm waiting for my cue . 
John or March ? March , of course . 
Thank you , Alice , dear . 
I repeat , I await my cue , the which you incontinently withhold . 
Selah ! She tried not to laugh . 
I've given it , you silly man . 
My dear , I come in on the eye . 
You must give it to me , because I've got to give it back to you in a second or two . 
She gave it me exquisitely . 
'There are with whom I can be more than gentle , madam . 
Here I returned the eye with vigour . 
'What manner of men are these you favour ? 'They are not men , madam . 
Neither are they favoured of me . 
'Of whom , then ? 'Of Heaven , madam , and at birth . 
Such as 'Such as you , madam . 
The way she said 'Hush ! at that was a flash of genius . 
She forbade and invited in the same breath . 
It was wonderful , and it made me Buckingham . 
And Buckingham it brought to her feet . 
It would have brought a cardinal . 
I never had to tell her to rise . 
To the line she swayed towards me . 
To the line she slipped into my arms . 
She even raised her lips to mine at the last . 
Then , as I stooped for the kiss , she placed her two small hands firmly on my face and pushed me away . 
Very nice , indeed , she said . 
You know your lines well , and you know how to speak them . 
Hare , I think you're going to be rather good . 
I wiped the perspiration off my forehead . 
You made me good , then . 
I shall never give such a show again . 
Never ! Never , Alice ! But you you're wonderful . 
Good Heavens , lass , this might be the two hundredth night you'd played the part . 
Junket , her name is . 
By Curds out of Season . 
I was thinking of our beagle . 
Don't think I'm quite mad . 
The Queen is , you mean . 
No , no you , Alice . 
She looked at her wrist watch . 
Oh , all right , I said . 
The Queen's the wine , the play's the thing . 
Only I'm tired of play acting , and I only want to talk to Alice . 
Come and let me introduce Pomfret . 
He hasn't been here all the time ? Waiting in the road . 
Oh , he's a horse . 
I laughed by way of answer , and we walked to where Pomfret stood , patient , immobile . 
My lady swept him a curtsey . 
I have to thank you for lending me your rug , Pomfret , she said . 
I replied for the little chap It's not my rug I am but the bail That's all right . 
Is your master nice to you ? But yes , lady . 
Don't you like him ? He seems to mean well . 
Isn't that rather unkind ? said Pomfret . 
I'm not in the witness box now . 
Then there's no reason why you shouldn't tell the truth . 
Really , Pomfret ! Forgive me , Alice . 
I'm only a young car , and sometimes , when the petrol gets into my tank I hope you don't take more than you should . 
I'm sober enough to see you've got a fine pair of headlights . 
I'm afraid you're of rather a coming on disposition , Pomfret . 
Oh , I can do my thirty five . 
His licence will show you that . 
Oh , Pomfret , did you get it endorsed ? It was his own fault . 
Kept egging me on all the time , and then , when we were stopped , tells the police that it's a physical impossibility for me to do more than fifteen . 
And I had to stand there and hear him say it ! He told me afterwards that it was only a facon de parler , but I was angry . 
I simply shook with anger , the radiator was boiling , too , and one of the tires burst with rage . 
And I suppose the petrol pipe was choked with emotion . 
And the engine almost throttled in consequence . 
But that is another story . 
And now , won't you let me take you for a little run ? My clutch is not at all fierce . 
My companion leaned against Pomfret's hood and laughed . 
He's a bit of a nut , isn't he ? said I. Do you think he's quite safe ? Rather ! Besides , I shall be with you . 
And talking of gurnats Where will you take me ? Whithersoever she listed . 
Is it far from here to Tendon Harrow ? About sixteen miles . 
Would you mind , Hare ? You know I'd love it . 
I started up Pomfret , and we settled ourselves in the car . 
As luck would have it , I had a second coat with me , and she said she was quite warm and comfortable . 
Presently she told me all that had happened . 
In the morning she had ridden alone to hounds . 
The meet had been at Will Cross . 
The mare was keen , and for a few miles all went well . 
Then the hounds had split . 
Most of the field had followed the master , but she and a few others had followed the huntsman . 
After a while she had dropped a little behind . 
Then there had been a check . 
She had seized upon the opportunity it afforded her to slip off and tighten her girths . 
Wasn't there any man there to Wait . 
And didn't anyone catch her ? The man who caught her is a brute . 
He would have wanted to tighten my girths for me , and that's why I dropped behind . 
Did he see you ? No. He may be there still , for all I know . 
He must have been having a roaring time leading the mare about all day . 
I hope it'll teach him not to pester a girl again . 
Some of us are brutes , aren't we ? Yes . 
Then But some men have been very nice to me . 
The devil they have ! said I. Here , as certain of our own writers say and have said , a gurgle of delight escaped her . 
I leaned forward and grabbed at something , caught and handed it to her . 
She stared at my empty palm . 
Your gurgle , I think . 
Oh , she said , laughing , you are mad . 
I never believed in palmistry . 
She also told me to beware of lifts , and a fellow trod on one of my spats in the one at Dover Street the very next morning . 
Hullo ! Pomfret slowed gradually down and stopped . 
I turned to the girl . 
This is what we pay the boy sixteen shillings a week for . 
What's the matter ? Petrol's run out . 
The silly serf must have forgotten to fill up before I started . 
My dear Hare , what shall we do ? I made a rapid calculation . 
We can't be more than a quarter of a mile from Fell . 
In fact , I'm almost sure it's at the foot of the next hill . 
Yes , I know it is . 
And if we can get Pomfret to the crest of this rise , it's all down hill from there to the village . 
Shall we try , Alice ? Rather ! She got out , and I followed . 
Fortunately the slope was a gentle one , and , without much of the harder labour , we managed to top the rise . 
Then we got in again , and began to descend the hill . 
When the brakes failed , one after another , I was , if possible , more pained than surprised . 
I rebuked Pomfret and turned to my companion Do you mind making ready to die ? I said . 
I'm sorry , but if we don't take the next corner , I'm afraid we shall be what is called 'found later' . 
We took it on two wheels , and I then ran Pomfret's near front wheel on to the low bank by the side of the road . 
Put your arms round my neck , I cried . 
She did so , and the next moment we plunged into the bushes . 
I breathed a sigh of relief . 
Then , still grasping the wheel , I looked down at my left shoulder . 
I love Harris tweeds , said the girl quietly . 
It's just as well , isn't it ? All things considered , it was . 
Her nose was embedded in the cloth about two inches above my left breast pocket . 
In silence I kissed her hair four times . 
Then I confess , I said , that the real blue black hair has always been a weakness of mine . 
At that she struggled to rise , but the angle was against her , and , honestly , I couldn't do much . 
The next minute she had found the edge of the wind screen fortunately open at the time of the accident and had pulled herself off me . 
My hair must have been Almost in my mouth , I said . 
I have been What ? Licking it , my dear . 
It's awfully good for hair , you know imparts a gloss like and silky appearance . 
Besides , since Idiot ! I climbed gingerly out of the car , and then helped her into the bushes . 
Suffering from shock , Alice ? I'm really devilish sorry . 
Between you and me , Hare , I think you managed it wonderfully . 
That's very sweet of you . 
I hope Pomfret isn't much hurt . 
Only a wing , I think . 
Look here , if we walk into the village , you can have some lunch you must want it at the inn , while I get some help to get him out . 
Just at the foot of the hill we came upon 'The Old Drum , its timbered walls showing white behind the red screen of its Virginia creeper . 
When I had escorted my lady into the little parlour , I sought the kitchen . 
Without waiting to inquire whom we were about to deprive of their succulent dish , I hastened with the good news to my companion . 
You don't mind waiting ? I should have waited for you , anyway . 
Now go and retrieve Pomfret you've just got time . 
The result was that the car was in the yard before the duck had left the oven , and I was able to have a wash at the pump before luncheon was served . 
Pomfret had come off very lightly , on the whole . 
Except for the broken wing , a fair complement of scratches , and the total wreck of one of the lamps , he seemed to have taken no hurt . 
So it happened that Alice and I lunched together . 
I think we were both glad of the food . 
Out of perspective in the background a youth staggered under a pile of first fruits . 
No wayside inn parlour is complete without one such picture , said I. As a rule , we are misled about Moses . 
This , however , is of a later school . 
Besides , this is really something out of the common . 
Why ? Well , that's not Gideon really , but Garrick as Gideon . 
And that with the first fruits is Kean as Yes ? As Ever , I went on hurriedly Gideon's great pal , you know , brother of Always . 
And Mrs. Siddons Who made her debut six years after Garrick's farewell . 
And you're all wrong about Kean . 
But don't let me stop you . 
Which is Nell Gwynne ? Nelly ? Ah , no , she isn't in the picture . 
But she stopped here once for lunch quite by chance and unattended , save for a poor fool she had found in the forest . 
Hunting she had been , and had lost her horse , and he brought her on her way on a pillion . 
Be sure he rode with his chin on his shoulder all the time . 
She never said who she was , but he knew her for some great lady , for all his dullness . 
The day passed , and then another and then the weeks and months , and presently the years , very slowly . 
She was looking away out of the latticed window up at the clear blue sky looking with the look that is blind and seeth nothing . 
I came round to the back of her chair and put my hands on her shoulders . 
We never finished our scene , I said gently . 
No ? No. You pushed me away . 
Did I ? A pause . 
Then May I finish it now ? I said . 
I expect , she said slowly , I expect you know that bit all right . 
I shall cut it on the night of the performance . 
She leaned right back in her chair and looked steadily up into my eyes . 
You'll do nothing of the sort , she said firmly . 
She may be A goddess . 
But she won't be you . 
Promise me you'll not cut it on the night . 
Oh , all right ! But I shall hate it , Alice , hate A present for a good Hare , she said softly , and raised her lips to mine . 
On examination Pomfret proved to be practically unhurt , and I was able to get some petrol in the village but naturally I didn't dare to drive him without seeing to the brakes . 
She left , I say , for she would not let me come with her . 
I implored her , but it was no good . 
I got home about six . 
Where on earth have you been ? said Daphne , as I entered the smoking room . 
Ask Pomfret , said I. He's in disgrace . 
You haven't hurt him ? He nearly killed me . 
What happened Lost his temper just because the petrol ran out . 
Believe me , a horrid exhibition . 
In other words , the brakes failed , and I had to run him into the bushes . 
One lamp and one wing broken , otherwise unhurt . 
To adjusting brakes materials , nil labour , three hours at a drink an hour , three pints ale . 
Oh , rotten , my dear , rotten ! I sank into a chair . 
Meanwhile , we've had to entertain the Wilson crowd . 
I suppose you forgot they were coming ? I was with you in spirit . 
In beer , you mean , said Berry . 
Look here , I knew you when you were seven , before you had put off the white mantle of innocence and assumed the cloak of depravity . 
Was it very bad ? said I. Bad ? said Jonah . 
She quoted a lot of them . 
One of the more nutty was a contribution from Albert on seeing his father smoking for the first time . 
'Mother , is daddy on fire' Now , that really happened . 
We had about half an hour of the book . 
Jonah asked her why she didn't publish it , and she nearly kissed him . 
To make things worse , said Jonah , they brought Baldwin and Arthur with them , as specimens of what they could do in the child line . 
How awful ! said I It was rather trying , said Berry . 
But they were all right as soon as we turned them on to the typewriter . 
Oh , we had little or no trouble with them after that . 
Quiet as mice , said Jonah . 
Do you know that machine cost me twenty five pounds ? I cried . 
The jam'll wash off , said Berry . 
You don't know how easily jam comes off . 
Why , I've known If I thought you really had turned them on to the typewriter , I should never forgive you . 
You oughtn't to say a thing like that , even in jest , said Berry it isn't Christian . 
I tell you for your good . 
Seriously , you didn't do such a wicked thing ? Hullo , where is it ? They're going to bring it back on Wednesday . 
I said they couldn't have it more than a week . 
I glanced at Jill , who was standing by the window . 
Her left eyelid flickered , and I knew it was all right . 
Well , I can't help it , I said , sinking back into my chair and lighting a cigarette . 
Poor old chap ! said Daphne . 
I believe you thought we had done you down . 
Is it to morrow you've got to go up to Town , Jill ? Yes , Boy . 
Are you going up , too ? Must . 
I'll give you lunch at the Berkeley if you like , dear . 
Jill came across and laid her cheek against mine . 
I always like Boy , because he's grateful , she said gently . 
Three days later our fellow mummers began to arrive . 
A deep melancholy had settled upon me . 
I cursed the play , I cursed the players , I cursed my part , and most of all I cursed the day which had seen me cast for Buckingham . 
Whenever I remembered my promise to Alice , I writhed . 
I don't know what's the matter with you , said my sister . 
Don't you want to see the girl you'll have to play the love scene with ? This about finished me , and I laughed bitterly . 
No , I said , I'm damned if I do . 
When Daphne pressed her point as only Daphne can , I felt really too timid and bored with the whole affair to argue about it , so I gave way . 
Accordingly , at ten minutes past five , I stood moodily on the platform by my sister's side . 
The train steamed in , and the passengers began to alight . 
I don't see her , she said half to herself . 
We were standing half way down the platform , and I turned and looked listlessly towards the front of the train . 
That end of the platform was empty except for two people . 
One was a stoker who had stepped off the foot plate . 
She was in blue still a blue coat and skirt , with a fox fur about her shoulders . 
A small , blue felt hat was somewhat shading her eyes , but I could see she was looking at me and smiling . 
I forgot all about Miss Tanyon she simply didn't matter now . 
there's the Queen ! I cried , and started towards her . 
Here , I flung over my shoulder . 
A four wheeled truck of luggage , propelled by a porter across my bows , blocked my way for a moment , and Daphne overtook me . 
So it is , she said . 
But how did you know ? CHAPTER XII THE ORDER OF THE BATH Berry blotted the letter with maddening precision . 
Then he picked it up tenderly and handed it to me . 
How will that do ? Read it aloud , said Daphne . 
Dear Sir , In the interests of personal cleanliness , we have not without considerable hesitation decided to install a fourth bathroom at our historic home , 'White Ladies' . 
At the same time , thee conventions of a prudish age make it undesirable that a second bath should be installed in one of the rooms already existing for that purpose . 
We think the fourth room on your right , as you leave the back stairs , going south . 
Please execute the work with your customary diligence . 
We should like to pay on the hire system , i . 
, so much a month , extending over a period of two years . 
The great strides , recently made in the perilous art of aviation , suggest to us that the windows should be of ground glass . 
P. S. lf your men drop the bath on the stairs , the second footman will at once apply for a warrant for their arrest . 
Jill buried her face in the sofa cushions and gave way to unrestrained merriment . 
I set my teeth and tried not to smile . 
For an instant the corners of Daphne's mouth twitched . 
Then Wretched ass , she said . 
The truth is , said her husband , you don't know literature when you see it . 
Now that letter I suppose I shall have to write to the man , said I. There you are , said Berry . 
I was about to say that I regarded that letter as one of the brightest jewels in an already crowded diadem . 
Give me the writing block , I said shortly , producing my fountain pen . 
What sort of a bath d'you want ? Porcelain enamel , they call it , don't they ? she replied vaguely , subjecting a box of chocolates to a searching cross examination . 
Berry rose to his feet and cleared his throat . 
As it fell to the ground , Berry seized it and held it at arm's length . 
Ha , he said rapturously . 
Not at all , said Jonah . 
I only threw that , because the dead cats haven't come . 
I did , said I. I should box it , if I were you , brother . 
Bottle it , if you prefer . 
Poor fool , said my brother in law . 
For the trumpet notes , to which it has just been your privilege to listen , there is a great future . 
In short , my voice is futurist . 
The moment they hear it , the few who have paid for their seats will realize what the box office will say when they demand the return of their money . 
And those who have not paid ? said I. Oh , they will understand why they were given tickets . 
Suppose you write that letter , said Daphne wearily . 
I bent over the writing block . 
You know , said Berry , I don't think this bath's at all necessary . 
At this there was a great uproar . 
At length Besides , said my sister , we all decided that we must have another bath ages ago . 
The only question there's ever been was where to put it . 
Of course , said I. If we don't , where are we going to dip the sheep ? Well , I think it's a shame to pull the old place about like this . 
If we're so awfully dirty , we'd better find another house that's got four bathrooms already , and sell White Ladies . 
Sell White Ladies ? cried Jill . 
Not only lock and stock , but barrel too . 
Yes , he added bitterly , the old water butt must go . 
Look here , said I. It occurs to me that this isn't a case for a letter . 
We ought to go and choose a bath properly . 
That's rather an idea , said Daphne . 
Simply sparkling , said her husband . 
Personally , I've got something better to do than to burst down to South London , and stagger round floor after floor , staring at baths . 
You needn't worry , said Daphne coolly . 
I wouldn't go with you for a hundred pounds . 
Berry turned to us others . 
Yet we love one another , he said , with a leer in his wife's direction . 
In reality I am the light of her eyes . 
The acetylene gas , as it were , of her existence . 
He rose and stretched himself . 
I wash my hands of the whole matter . 
Install what cistern you please . 
If approached properly , I may consent to test the work when complete . 
Mind you spare no expense . 
We don't propose to , said Daphne . 
I suppose , he said , I suppose you know what word will be found at the post mortem graven upon my heart ? What ? said Daphne , stifling a yawn . 
It was quite a good day to choose a bath . 
True , it was winter . 
I watched his passage gratefully . 
It was that of a never ending band . 
Playing all the way , too , but silently . 
Yet , the music was there . 
The pity was that one could not hear it . 
The pomp , the swagger , the swing of the Guards , the shifting movement , the bright array all these were unmistakable . 
The very lilt of the air made itself felt . 
Certainly , the river was en fete . 
It had been arranged that the selection of an appropriate bath should be made by Daphne , Jonah , and me . 
When I came down to breakfast to find that Jonah had already left for Huntercombe , I was more hurt than surprised . 
But , when Daphne appeared during the marmalade , clad in a new riding habit , I made haste to empty my mouth . 
You can't ride there , I said . 
Besides , the tram lines You don't want me , old chap , said my sister , stooping to lay her soft cheek against mine , as she passed to her place . 
I drank some coffee with an injured air . 
Then This , I said , is low down . 
I don't like it in you . 
It argues the confidence we repose in your judgment , said Daphne . 
Yes , brother , said Berry , looking up from The Sportsman . 
The bath dressing gown has fallen upon your rounded shoulders . 
Ill though it becomes you , I trust that Enough , said I. Alone I will select a bath . 
Doubtless you will all deplore my choice as bitterly as you will fight with one another for the privilege of using it . 
When I am dead , you will regret No , we shan't , said my brother in law . 
We shall just bury you under another name and try to keep the obituary notices out of the papers . 
I sat back in my chair and frowned . 
Be good enough to pass the rolls , said I. You've only had four , said Berry , pushing them across . 
Mind you get a good lunch at Lambeth . 
I'm told they do you very well at 'The Three Balls . 
When I'm choosing a bath , said I , I always lunch at 'The Rising Spray . 
And now , here I was , afoot upon Westminster Bridge bound for the warehouse of the firm we proposed to honour with our patronage . 
I passed on into the roar of the crowded streets , and a quarter of an hour later I reached the place I sought . 
Almost immediately the office boy took me for a commercial traveller and refused point blank to announce my arrival . 
I told him that I had an appointment . 
Yes , he said pleasantly . 
Friend , said I , I see that you are bent on gaining the feathered fowl . 
In other words , if I'm kept waiting much longer you'll get the bird . 
I don't think , he replied somewhat uneasily . 
That , said I , is what I complain of . 
I seated myself on a table and lighted a cigarette . 
Then I wonder how he'll like his new place , I said , apostrophizing the skylight . 
Then Of corse , the guv'nor might be in , said the youth . 
Speak for yourself , said I. At the same time , you appear to be doing what you conceive to be your duty . 
And for those who do their duty , there is always a shilling in the left hand trouser pocket But the boy was half way upstairs . 
I had proved my identity . 
Five minutes later one of the partners was conducting me in the direction of the baths . 
Now he had twice begged me to be careful not to hit my head , for he led me through divers dark , low pitched corridors . 
I remembered his warning about a fifth of a second too late . 
When we at length emerged again into the broad light of day , I contemplated my new bowler in some annoyance . 
It was bashed in properly . 
A large dent in shape somewhat resembling the Empire of India leered at me , its edges generously defined with whitewash . 
My good host was greatly concerned , and begged to be allowed to take the damaged headgear away and have it brushed . 
After a little I consented , promising to walk round and look at the baths while he was gone . 
The next moment he had disappeared . 
I laid my stick and gloves on a glass topped table and looked about me . 
Never before had I seen so many baths gathered together . 
Large and small , deep and shallow , normal and abnormal , they stood orderly in long lines . 
The more elaborate ones , fitted with screens and showers , douches , etc . 
, stood a little apart upon a baize covered dais , bright with their glistening pipes and rows of taps . 
Attracted by the aristocracy upon the dais , I was proceeding to stroll humbly in their direction , when I heard the sound of footsteps . 
The next moment a girl stepped lightly between great sliding iron doors , which led obviously from an adjoining chamber on the same floor . 
Very smart she was , in a black cloth coat with ermine collar and cuffs . 
On her head was a trim black hat from which a fine brooch was blazing . 
Save that she was fair , and that her feet flashed as she walked , I could see little more . 
For a moment the new comer hesitated , looking about her . 
Then she came towards me . 
I want to choose a bath . 
For an instant I looked at her . 
Then I remembered that I was hatless , stickless , gloveless . 
What sort of bath do you require ? She was looking at me now narrowly rather . 
Quickly she swung round and glanced about the great hall . 
Then she spoke , somewhat uneasily . 
Er if you would show me some baths with showers and things , please With pleasure , madam . 
Will you come this way ? I preceded her in the direction of the great ones . 
Now this , I said , laying my hand familiarly on the smooth edge of one of the grandes dames , this is 'The Duchess . 
She may not exactly figure in Society , but I can assure you that every morning half Society figures in her . 
I glanced at the girl to see an amused smile struggling with grave suspicion in her eyes . 
We've been selling a great number lately . 
Have you ? she said slowly . 
Yes , indeed , madam . 
Only this morning we received an order for fourteen from Madagascar . 
I turned to another patrician . 
Here again is a first class bath . 
A great feature is the glass screen . 
The enamel , too , is of the very best quality . 
Nickelplated fittings , stream line body , detachable whee er that is , the waste also is constructed on a most ingenious principle we call it the 'Want Not' pattern . 
Ah , she said quietly . 
And what's the price of this er paragon ? I glanced at the ticket , knitting my brows . 
Well , it's listed at 'AWK , but to you , madam , the price is I looked at her , smiling . 
Yes ? she said , with her grey eyes on mine . 
Her eyebrows were raised a little , and the soft lips had taken on the curve that tells of laughter hardly controlled . 
Another look like that , said I , and I'll give it you and pay the carriage . 
She broke into a long ripple of delight . 
Then she took her seat upon 'The Nobleman's broad edge and regarded me mischievously . 
I think you ought to apologize , she said severely . 
Who took me for a salesman ? said I. I never did that . 
Besides , I wasn't a bit sure when I first spoke , but , as you had no hat And then you led me on . 
Still , I beg your pardon . 
The partner's a very nice chap . 
And the mischief is reparable . 
I mean Where is the partner ? At the present moment I believe he's engaged in trying to efface the Indian Empire . 
Bit of a Socialist , you know , I added . 
May I smoke ? What d'you mean ? Doesn't she know the word ? Smoke , my dear . 
Draw into and expel from the mouth the fumes of burning tobac Idiot ! About the Little Englander . 
And now , I said , with a wave of my cigarette , behold me once more at your service . 
The gentle art of bathing , madam , is of considerable antiquity . 
In classical times the bath played a very prominent part in the everyday existence of the cleanly nut . 
Then came a dead period in the history of personal irrigation . 
You can tell that from their polish . 
Rather exclusive , aren't they ? Collectively , yes , madam . 
Individually , they will receive you with open arms . 
Only last night an order arrived from I know . 
You're no good as a sales man . 
From Honolulu , for twenty two 'God sends . 
Madagascar's request was for 'Duchesses . 
That , over there , is a 'Wallsend , I mean 'God send . 
I felt just like that at first . 
And yet I have , I added thoughtfully they had one at a hotel I stayed at last Easter . 
At Biarritz , that was . 
I wish you'd be serious , she said , laughing . 
Then you might be of some use . 
I don't think you're at all kind , said I , leaning against the screen of 'The Duchess' with a dejected air . 
Excuse me , she said , but is that the Slinker Slouch I've heard of ? Your attitude , I mean ? No , I said shortly . 
But , to return to your unkindness . 
I want a bath just as much as you do . 
You know what I mean . 
I'm a customer , like you . 
We're both in the same ba boat . 
And I have been doing my best to indicate the merits of er of The idle rich , she said , smiling . 
Yes , but you see you shouldn't have . 
But , then , you shouldn't have looked so priceless , or worn your sense of humour on your sleeve . 
You shouldn't have had a small , straight nose or a mouth like a red flower . 
You shouldn't have walked like a thoroughbred , or carried your clothes as if they were worth wearing . 
You shouldn't have had eyes I could see to read by , if the light failed . 
Finished ? No. But listen . 
I think I hear the partner coming the genuine article , this time . 
Anyway , I went on , he'll be back in a moment and so , as I'm afraid I didn't consider you just now , I'll try and make up for it . 
But what about your bath ? Have you seen one you like ? Yes , said I. I have . 
Not a bath , though . 
But I can easily come another day . 
I say , said the girl quietly . 
I swung round and looked at her . 
She still sat upon the edge of 'The Nobleman , her little gloved hands gripping the rim on either side of her . 
Her face was raised a little , but she was looking down . 
One slight leg thrust out from under the blue frock , its dainty instep gleaming under the silk stocking . 
The ankle above it , very slender the bucked shoe literally beaming with pride . 
I haven't seen a bath I like , either , she said simply . 
At this moment the partner came bustling back , full of apologies . 
Stifling a desire to strangle him , I congratulated the good man upon the condition of my hat , and turned to the girl . 
Then , as we both want to see some baths , perhaps we might look at some together ? I said . 
If you please , madam , said the partner . 
He turned to 'The Duchess . 
Now , this is a first class bath . 
One of our very latest models . 
Only this morning we received an order from Ceylon . 
Fortunately , we were both a little behind him . 
No one can say that we did not weigh the merits of the various baths carefully . 
We passed from one to another , asking questions , receiving information , examining , criticizing , discussing for over an hour . 
Four times , to our great joy , the excellent partner actually climbed into a bath , the more satisfactorily to emphasize its advantages . 
We had a great time . 
Finally , we each gave an order for a 'Pompadour , which seemed , on the whole , to merit the palm . 
It was certainly the last word in the bath line . 
While she was giving her name and the address of the home , which her new bath was to adorn , I strolled a little apart , thinking . 
When she had finished , the partner turned to me . 
I think I have the address , sir . 
The same as before ? That's right , said I. I'm going down there on Tuesday . 
Could you send a man down that day to see the room and take the measurements ? I'd like to be there myself . 
He'd better come by the nine thirty , which'll get him down in two hours . 
I'll send to meet him . 
I'm going down by car myself . 
He turned to the girl inquiringly . 
Perhaps Tuesday would suit you , too , madam ? I don't think you mentioned any particular day , and as it's the same station for both houses , madam He broke off . 
She and I were staring at one another . 
Then How awfully strange , we said in unison . 
The partner being there , there was no more to be said . 
Tuesday will do very well , she said , turning to him . 
Together he conducted us to the street . 
Then , might he send for a taxi ? There was a rank . 
The idea of sending for two taxis never seemed to enter his head . 
A good fellow , that partner . 
But , no thank you , my lady would walk . 
Would pick up a cab presently . 
May I have the pleasure of seeing you to a taxi ? said I , naturally enough . 
We bade the partner good bye and turned in the direction of Westminster . 
You're sure it's not taking you out of your way ? said my companion with an innocent look . 
Out of my way , said I. D'you think I live at Tooting ? She broke into a little laugh . 
I went on And if I did . 
If I lived at Hither Green and was just going to miss the last tram , don't you think I'd er miss it ? You're very kind , she said quietly . 
Not at all , said I , with a glance downward . 
The small bright shoe is on the other exquisite er foot . 
It's very good of you to let me walk with you , especially in view of my recent scandalous behaviour all among the baths . 
Which reminds me , you were awful . 
I thought I should die , when you asked that poor man A wholesome thirst for knowledge , my dear . 
Talking of which , d'you know it's getting on for half past one ? Is it really ? It is , indeed . 
Time tears away sometimes , doesn't he ? Sometimes . 
You are sweet , said I. However . 
He's a mocker of men , you know very contrary . 
When he can serve , not he . 
When he cannot , he is willing enough . 
Beg him to hasten , he'll cock his hat and stroll with an air of leisure that makes us dance . 
Cry him to tarry , he is already gone , the wind panting behind him . 
Bid him return , he is at once all sympathy grave sympathy 'He may not . 
Otherwise he would have been so pleased . 
Rather like my brother in law . 
You'll meet him at White Ladies . 
Is that where the bath's going ? Certainly . 
We shall be there in the spring . 
Will you come to our bath warming ? Perhaps . 
We came to the bridge and the sunshine and the marching river , and beyond these to Bridge Street and the green square . 
At the corner she hesitated . 
I think I'd better say good bye now . 
I'm going to see a fellow , said I. I wish you'd come with me . 
A quick look of surprise . 
Then Do I know him ? I think so . 
He's one of the Times . 
Lunch Time he's called brother of Half Time . 
Both sons of the old man . 
I've an appointment with him , too . 
I'm keeping him waiting now . 
She held out her hand . 
You've made a mistake , I said . 
I know for a fact he's going to be at the Carlton . 
No good ! I know the family . 
The father taught them all the trick of being able to be in more than one place at the same time . 
All of them ? Yes . 
My dear , you're wrong . 
He's got a place at Greenwich , you know , and never leaves it . 
Well , I won't bother her , for she's been awfully sweet . 
Shall I call her a taxi ? She nodded . 
I don't think we ought to stand here any longer the atmospheric pressure of the Labour party is already affecting my breathing . 
Besides , any moment I might be mistaken for a Cabinet Minister . 
I know a salesman's pretty bad , but I must draw the line somewhere . 
With that I hailed a taxi . 
As it was coming to the kerb You're a dear C. B. , I said . 
But I would have loved to have given you lunch . 
Would you ? You know I would , lass . 
Well , I shall look forward to you and the spring . 
The cab drew up , and I opened the door . 
Where shall I tell him to go ? For a moment she hesitated . 
Then she spoke slowly Was it the Carlton you said ? An hour later I stood once more at a taxi's door . 
Our luncheon was over , and I was saying farewell . 
You've been awfully kind , said the girl . 
Good bye , said I. I shall look forward to you at White Ladies . 
My dear , the terms are synonymous . 
If this wasn't the Haymarket , said I. . 
She was gone , her eyes full of laughter . 
I turned to see Berry three paces away . 
Helping the porter ? he said pleasantly . 
I wondered where you got that two shillings from last week . 
But oughtn't you to be in uniform ? I should have thought Nathans I've chosen a bath , I said , seeking to divert his thoughts . 
After all he might not have seen . 
Stacks of baths , you know . 
By the way , the office boy took me for a commercial traveller , I added . 
And the girl ? Who did she take you for ? I drew myself up . 
She's a C. B. too , I said loftily . 
What more natural than that we should C. B. ? said Berry scornfully . 
Now , if you had said K. G. I cut him short . 
You needn't tell the others , I said . 
A fat grin stole into his face . 
The call of duty , brother , however distasteful Look here , said I. You know those new cigars at the club ? Yes , he said eagerly . 
The half a crown ones . 
They're not new , I said uneasily . 
Never mind , he said airily , taking my arm . 
I feel sure a half a crown cigar would affect my memory . 
And a dry Martini would probably finish it . 
This is sheer blackmail , said I. Take it or leave it , said Berry , with the air of one who has the whip hand . 
All right , I said wearily . 
I should think so , my son . 
And cheap at the price , too . 
On the whole I think it was . 
CHAPTER XIII A LUCID INTERVAL Ausgang verboten ! said the guard . 
Hush yourself , replied her husband . 
I would minister to him . 
We got him away somehbw and bore him towards a taxi . 
This was too much for Daphne , and she and Jonah called another taxi , and said they would see us at the hotel . 
Satisfied that the conductor of the hotel omnibus was collecting our luggage , I followed Jill and Berry into the cab , and we drove out of the station . 
When we reached the hotel , Berry told the porter that he need not uncover , as he was travelling incognito , and asked if Mrs. Pleydel had arrived . 
Receiving a negative answer , he gave the man five marks and asked him to be very careful as to the way he lifted the cat's basket out of his wife's cab . 
Then he suffered himself to be conducted to the sitting room which I had engaged on the first floor . 
Five minutes later Daphne burst into the room . 
What on earth's the matter with the people here ? she demanded . 
Half the staff are feeling all over the inside of our cab , and the porter keeps asking me if I'm sure the cat was put in at the station . 
Is this some of your doing ? Possibly some idle banter I knew it , said Daphne . 
If this is how you begin , we shan't get out of Munich alive . 
Why we had chosen Munich is not very easy to tell . 
Of course , we ought to have gone to Biarritz and taken the car , but they wouldn't have that . 
Everybody had wanted to go to a different place . 
Berry's choice was Minsk , because , he said , he wanted to rub up his Hebrew . 
Such a suggestion is characteristic of Berry . 
Then Munich was mentioned , and as no one had seemed very keen , no one had taken the trouble to be very rude about it . 
I say four because I mean four . 
I have never appreciated opera , and was all along reluctant to go . 
But when I found that the show began at half past four , I put my foot down and reminded the others of the Daylight Saving Bill . 
With gusto they retorted that I had been to more matinees than they cared to remember . 
Brother , said Berry , I weep for you . 
Not now , but in the privacy of my chamber I often weep great tears . 
Friend , said I , your plain but honest face belies your words . 
To the consternation of the assistants in the library , Berry covered his face with his hands . 
He thinks it decent to revile me , he said weakly . 
Where is my wife , my helpmeet ? But Daphne had already retired . 
As I left the shop , an American lady approached Berry and told him the way to the English chemist . 
At five the next day it began to rain . 
I was in Maximilian Street at the time , admiring the proportions of the thoroughfare and ready for anything . 
The rain suggested to me that I should take a taxi to the Rumpelmayer's of Munich . 
A closed one was crawling by the kerb opposite to me , on the far side of the road . 
I put up my stick , and it slowed down . 
As I sat back in the dark corner , the opposite door opened . 
That's right , said I. She jumped properly . 
Good Heavens ! I'm so sorry , but I'm all right , said I , I assure you . 
Young man of gentlemanly appearance . 
Harrow and Oxford , terms moderate , bathroom and domestic offices , possession early in June Get out of my cab at once . 
will send photograph if required . 
Whose cab ? Well , I engaged it . 
So did I. When ? Just now . 
Isn't it ? I'm so glad . 
I'm English , too , you know . 
I can prove that by my German . 
And But you don't want to go where I do . 
Don't be silly ! You know what I mean . 
At this moment the off hind wheel of a big limousine , which was passing us , caught our near front wheel . 
The girl cried out , put her small hand into my mouth , and sat up . 
I spoke into her glove . 
Are you hurt ? No , but I think I'm going to cry . 
All the same , it's an outrage and a casus belli . 
Where does the British Ambassador live ? Here the door was opened . 
The girl released me to adjust her hat , and I rolled on to the step and sat looking at a tall footman , who raised his hat and said something in German . 
The next minute a lady appeared . 
She began to speak in German , then Oh , you are English , she said . 
I rose and bowed stiffly . 
Yes , madame , I have that honour . 
I am so very sorry . 
I do hope you are not hurt . 
I am only shaken , thank you . 
She looked into the cab . 
My dear , she purred , I am so terribly sorry . 
I hope you were not hurt either . 
I cannot say No , I'm all right , thank you . 
I caught her and carried her to the limousine . 
When I had set her on the deep seat , I turned to the lady . 
I do not know where she lives , I said . 
We have only met casually . 
A physician ? she queried . 
Had she better I don't think it is a case for a doctor . 
Then she stepped into the car , and a moment later we were slipping silently up the street . 
By the lights in the car , I could see that our friend was a handsome woman of perhaps thirty eight . 
She was almost entirely enveloped in a magnificent sable coat her head was bare . 
The great thing about her was her exquisite voice . 
While her fingers were busy about the girl's hat and throat , the latter opened her eyes . 
Then she sat up and put her hand to her head . 
No , lean back , my dear , said our hostess . 
She sprayed her with eau de Cologne . 
That's lovely , said the girl , with closed eyes . 
The other stopped for a moment to take off the jaunty little hat and lightly push the dark hair away from the white temples . 
The girl thanked her with a smile . 
Then she started up again . 
Oh , but where is She saw me , and stopped , colouring . 
He is here , in the car . 
She closed her eyes once more , and the colour had faded from her cheeks before she spoke again . 
Where are we going ? she said . 
To the Opera House , dear . 
You see , I am singing there . 
I would take you home , but I am late now . 
My maid , she will make you comfortable . 
I have nice rooms at the theatre , quite an apartment . 
And you will come , too , please . 
There is plenty of room . 
Besides she is in your charge . 
Of course , said I. Thank you very much . 
As she had said , a regular little suite had been allotted to our hostess at the Opera House . 
As well as the dressingroom , there was a bathroom and a large sitting room , with flowers everywhere , and beautifully furnished . 
Here I waited , wondering a little . 
The others had passed into the dressing room . 
Presently Yvonne , the French maid , entered the room . 
Mademoiselle recovers , monsieur , she said , with a smile . 
Also she dines here , and monsieur with her . 
If you please , said I. It seemed about the best thing to say . 
Very swiftly she laid the table for two a cold chicken , some salad , rolls , and a bottle of champagne . 
It is not much , said Yvonne apologetically . 
Now at Madame's house Yvonne ! came from the dressing room . 
Five minutes later a telephone bell rang . 
Then the dressing room door opened , and Madame came forth robed , and the girl with her , looking as right as rain . 
That was my call , said our hostess . 
I go to sing now . 
She swept out of the room . 
Yvonne closed the door behind her . 
I like her , said I. She's a dear , said my companion . 
I like you , too , said I. She swept me a curtsey . 
It was silly of me to faint . 
You did it so sweetly . 
This'll teach you not to take other people's taxis . 
On the contrary Would you like to give me some chicken ? Ishould like Yes ? She looked at me straight in the eyes . 
I walked to the table and took up the knife and fork . 
Yes ? I looked at her , smiling gloriously now . 
Oh , I'd like Berry to see us now . 
She came across and laid a hand on my shoulder . 
I like you , too , she said . 
We had a great meal . 
She didn't want to drink any champagne , but I persuaded her to take a little . 
And who's Berry ? she said , pushing back her chair . 
A mistake , said I. A great mistake . 
Who made him ? My sister . 
She married him , you see . 
Of course , I shall get confused in a moment . 
Five minutes later you were smashed up . 
Now you're in a prima donna's room at the Opera House , eating a cold collation . 
Collation is good , isn't it ? Awfully ? Where did you hear it ? I frowned . 
I came out top in dictation last term . 
Indeed ? Genius and madness do go together , don't they ? You are mad , aren't you ? Raving , my dear . 
I've been certified for two years come Ember . 
Out on licence under the new Cock and Bull Bill . 
You know , 'And your petitioners will ever Pray I suppose you do have lucid intervals ? Only on third Tuesdays . 
By Jove , so it is . 
I thought one was about due . 
Now I come to think of it , I nearly had one just now . 
When ? When you asked me what I should like . 
In silence she traced a pattern upon the white cloth with a small pink finger . 
I watched it , and wondered whether her eyes were smiling . 
I couldn't see them , but her mouth looked as if it wanted to . 
Then I think you'd better tell me when the interval's coming , she said quietly . 
One usually goes out You're thinking of Plays , said I. Between Acts II and III ten minutes and the safety curtain . 
But with Life and fools it's different . 
You don't go out in these intervals . 
No ? No , I said . 
On the contrary , it's where you come in . 
She looked up , smiling , at that . 
It is the interval , she explained . 
Oh , but she was in fine fettle , was Madame . 
My voice is good to night . 
It is you two that have helped me . 
You are so young and goodly . 
And I have a box , the Royal box they are not using it , you see if you would like to hear the rest of the opera . 
Yes ? But you must come back and say 'Good night' to me aiterwards . 
Our murmured thanks she would have none of . 
Supper and a box was little enough . 
Had she not nearly killed us both an hour ago ? But now I shall sing to you , and you will forgive me . 
I am in voice to night . 
Is it not so , Yvonne ? But , Madame ! The ecstasy of Yvonne was almost pathetic . 
The ceremony with which we were installed in the Royal box was worthy of the Regent himself . 
But then Madame was a very great lady . 
The lights in the house did not go down for a minute , and I peered over the rim of the balcony to see if I could locate Berry and Co . 
Suddenly I saw Jill , and Berry next to her . 
He was staring straight at the Royal box , and his face was a study . 
He must have seen me come in . 
Then the lights died , and the curtain went up . 
The singing of Madame I cannot describe . 
It was not of this world . 
To the house she was the great artiste a name to whisper , a figurehead to bow before . 
For us , we were listening to the song of a friend . 
As she had promised , she sang to us . 
There was no mistaking it . 
And the great charm of her welled out in that wonderful voice . 
All the spirit of melody danced in her notes . 
When she was singing , there seemed to be none but us in the theatre , and soon no theatre only us in the world . 
We two only stepped by her side , walked with her , understood . 
Actually the girl and I sat spellbound , smiling down as she smiled up from the stage . 
We knew afterwards that we had been sitting hand in hand , as children do . 
At the end of it all the house rose at her . 
Never was there such a scene . 
We rose , too , and stood smiling . 
Somehow we did not applaud . 
Shall we go ? said I. Yes . 
As I turned to the door , I caught sight of four faces looking earnestly up from the stalls . 
An attendant was waiting in the corridor , and we were escorted through the iron door the way we had come . 
Madame sat in a deep arm chair in the sitting room , her hair all about her shoulders . 
Virtue had gone out of her . 
Ah , my dears , she said . 
My companion kneeled by her side and put her arms round her neck . 
Then she spoke and kissed her . 
I do not know what she said . 
The other held her very close for a moment , then looked at me and smiled . 
I raised her hand to my lips . 
I cannot say anything , Madame . 
We have spoken together for the last half hour . 
Is it not so ? It is so , Madame . 
After a little , my companion said we must be going . 
He will see me to my hotel , she said . 
I do not like letting you go , said our hostess , but I take long to dress . 
My car shall carry you home and return for me . 
Yvonne , see to that . 
Yes , there will be plenty of time . 
Besides , you have driven enough in taxis for to day . 
What have you lost , my dear ? The girl was looking about her . 
I think I must have left it in the box my chain bag . 
How silly ! My dear , I leave everything everywhere I will get it , said I. Yvonne had gone for the car . 
Besides , I wanted to go . 
It's quite a small gold I know it , said I , smiling . 
Can you find your way ? said Madame . 
The house will be almost in darkness . 
Oh , yes , Madame . 
A moment later I was in the corridor beyond the iron door . 
It was quite dark , but twenty paces away a faint suggestion of light showed where the door of the Royal box stood open . 
When I reached it , I saw that a solitary lamp was burning on the far side of the stalls . 
After glancing at it , the darkness of the box seemed more impenetrable . 
I felt for the little gold bag on the balcony , on the chair , on the floor . 
I stood up and peered into the great , dim auditorium , wondering whether I dared strike a match . 
Fearing that there might be a fireman somewhere in the darkness , I abandoned the idea . 
The sudden flash might be seen , and then people would come running , and there would have to be explanations . 
I went down on my hands and knees , and felt round her chair and then mine , and then all over the box . 
Just as I got up , my right hand encountered something hard and shiny . 
Clearly it wasn't what I was looking for , but out of curiosity I stooped to feel it again . 
I groped in vain for a moment then I put my hand full on the buckle of a patent leather shoe . 
As my fingers closed about a warm ankle Pardon , monsieur ! came a quick whisper . 
Is that you , Yvonne ? Si , monsieur . 
I never heard you come in . 
I have come this moment , and did not see monsieur in the dark . 
Monsieur cannot find that little bag ? No. Do you think I might strike a match ? Ah , no , monsieur , not in the Opera House , They are so particular . 
I see at least , I don't , and that's the trouble . 
However I felt over the balcony again . 
Where did mademoiselle sit , monsieur ? Where are you ? I groped in the direction of the whisper and found an arm . 
In that chair there , I said , guiding her to it . 
Here , monsieur ? Yes , that's right . 
I heard her hands groping about the chair and turned to try the floor on the other side again . 
I have it , monsieur . 
Well , said I , I could have sworn I'd felt everywhere round that chair . 
She chinked the bag by way of answer . 
Anyway , we've got it , said I. Come on . 
And I made for the door . 
Then I stopped to take one more look at the great house . 
As I did so , a woman appeared on the far side of the stalls . 
She paused for a second to glance at herself in a mirror immediately under the solitary electric light . 
Neither of us spoke for a moment . 
Then Why did you say you were Yvonne ? said I. Yvonne is my name , too . 
Were you afraid I might have a lucid interval ? Perhaps . 
I have I'm having one now . 
With a little half laugh , half sob , a warm arm slid round my neck . 
Here they are ! she whispered . 
Madame would not let us go till Yvonne had returned from the manager's office with the offer of a box for Thursday . 
So it is not 'Good bye' and you will come and see me again . 
I sing then for the last time in Munich . 
I fear you cannot have your own box , though . 
The Regent is coming that night . 
We laughed and bade her farewell . 
As the car slowed down at my companion's hotel , the footman slid off the front seat and opened the door . 
I got up and out of the car . 
As I turned , I saw the girl pick up her gloves and leave the precious bag on the seat . 
My dear , your bag But , as she got out , the bag left the seat with her . 
By the lights in the car I saw that it was attached to a chain about her neck and the chain lay beneath her dress . 
I handed her out thoughtfully . 
Till Thursday , then , she said . 
Till to morrow morning , said I. She laughed . 
I think there ought to be an interval . 
Isn't that just what I'm saying ? What about a luncheon interval to morrow ? Well , it mustn't be a lucid one All right . 
I'll bring Jonah and Daphne . 
Mayn't I see the mistake ? If I can find him . 
I say She turned , one small foot on the steps . 
I love your feet , I said . 
Do you always unfasten that chain and take off the bag when you go to the theatre ? She looked down at the little foot in its shining shoe . 
Then Only on third Tuesdays , she said . 
When I reached my hotel , I passed quickly upstairs to the sitting room . 
Here he is , said Daphne Come along , darling , and have some supper , and tell us all about it . 
Woman , you forget yourself . 
You are no longer on the joy wheel . 
As a matter of fact , I have , said I. Madame gave me some dinner at the Opera House . 
Of course , said Berry . 
What did I say ? We grovelling worms can gnaw our sandwiches the while he cracks bottles of champagne , was it ? I nodded . 
Berry rose to his feet , and in a voice broken with emotion , called such shades of his ancestors as are on night duty to witness . 
Hencefifth , he said , I intend to lead a wicked life Blackpool Conservative no change , said Jonah . 
Virtue may have its own cakes and ale . 
I dare say it has . 
What of it ? I never see any of them . 
Its patrons actually wallow in champagne . 
For me , the most beastly sandwiches I ever ate , and an expensive stall . 
For him , dinner with the prima donna and the Royal box . 
By the way , who did the girl mistake you for ? One of the attendants or the business manager ? Who was she ? said Jill . 
She looked rather a dear , said Daphne . 
You'll meet her to morrow . 
And Berry she wants to meet Berry . 
There you are , said my brother in law . 
Is my tie straight ? I lighted a cigarette to conceal a smile . 
CHAPTER XIV A PRIVATE VIEW When I had adjusted the cushions , I sank into the chair and sighed . 
What's that for ? said Daphne Sin , said I. Whose ? That of him who packed for me at the Blahs this morning . 
A sin of omission rather than commission , though he did put my sponge bag into my collarcase , I added musingly . 
They're both round , you see . 
Still , I pass that by . 
But what do you really complain of ? said Jill . 
He's left my dressing gown out . 
I expect he thought it was a loose cover , said Jonah . 
It'll be sent on all right , said Daphne That's nothing . 
What about my fan ? You're not a bit sorry for me about that . 
I have already been sorry about it . 
I was sorry for you on Friday just by the sideboard . 
He was a very nice man , and his feet weren't a bit flat . 
I believe you did it on purpose to get into conversation with him . 
Where's Berry ? At that moment the gentleman in question walked across the lawn towards us . 
Thank Heaven ! he said when he saw me . 
I'm so glad you're back . 
I've run out of your cigarettes . 
I handed him my case in silence . 
It's curious , he said , how used one can get to inferior tobacco . 
Tea appeared in serial form . 
As he turned to go Bring me the tray that's on the billiard table , said Berry . 
Without moving , we all observed one another , the eyes looking sideways . 
You see , the tray bore a jig saw . 
The next morning Jill had done nearly two more square inches before breakfast , and I missed the midday train to town . 
Hullo , you have got on ! I said , as the man set the tray and its precious burden gingerly on the grass in our midst . 
A land rich in minerals , teeming with virgin soil a very Canaan of to day . 
Does it not call you , brother ? It does , said I. I wish it didn't , because it's wicked waste of time , but it does . 
I kneeled down that I might the better appreciate their industry . 
The jig saw was called 'A Young Diana' and was alleged to be a reproduction of the picture of that name which had appeared in the Academy the year before . 
In other words , it was self supporting . 
After a careful scrutiny , I rose to my feet , took a pace or two backwards , and put my head on one side . 
Then I like it , I said . 
Some people might say it looked a little crude or unfinished but , to my mind , that but preserves , as it were , the spirit of barbarism which the title suggests . 
Suggestion as opposed to realization , said Berry , is the rule by which we work . 
To the jaded appet imagination the hoof suggests a horse . 
It is up to you to imagine the horse . 
We have , as it were , with an effort set in motion the long unused machinery of your brain . 
It is for you , brother , to carry on the good work . 
There will be collection plates at both doors . 
You're not to touch it yet , said Daphne . 
I want to talk about abroad first . 
If we're really going , we must settle things . 
Of course we're going , said Berry . 
I ordered a yachting cap yesterday . 
What's that for ? said Jill . 
It's expensive , said Berry moodily , but I don't see how else we can satisfactorily sustain the flow of bloated plutocracy which at present oozes from us . 
We all agreed that the car must come . 
Then arose the burning question of where to go . 
In a rash moment Jill murmured something about Montenegro . 
Montenegro ? said Berry , with a carelessness that should have put her on her guard . 
I heard someone talking about it when I was dining with the Bedells . 
And , if it was wet , we could go to the the Kursaal , said Berry . 
It's like that , though . 
Casino ? That's it Casino . 
And then we could go on to Nice and Cannes , and You're going too fast , aren't you ? Servia comes before Cannes , doesn't it ? Well , Servia , too . 
All right , said Berry . 
Ah , I mean the Spanish Toledo , not the one in the States . 
Oh , I see She checked herself suddenly and looked round . 
He's laughing at me , she said . 
What have I said wrong ? If anyone asked me where we should be without our Jill , said Berry , I couldn't tell them . 
When we began to discuss the tour in good earnest , the argument proper began . 
I had suggested that we should make for Frankfort , to start with , and Daphne and Jonah rather favoured Germany . 
Berry , however , wanted to go to Austria . 
It was after a casual enough remark of Jonah's that the roads in Germany were very good that Berry really got going . 
The roads good ? he said . 
That settles it say no more . 
, will be able to be made with success . 
If we start at once , we shall be able to get the book published by Christmas 'Road Surfaces in Germany , by a Hog . 
The old German towns are fascinating , said Daphne . 
Nothing like them , said Berry . 
I can smell some of them now . 
My heart leaps up when I behold a Van Stunk on the wall . 
Wordsworth knew his Englishman , didn't he ? Oh , well , if you're so dead against it Against it , dear . 
Think of the notices we shall get in the papers ! We'll give our photographs to The Daily Glass before we start . 
I expect we shall see one another in the chapel on Sundays , and I shall write to you in blood every day , darling , on a piece of my mattress . 
The letters will always be in the top left hand corner of the steak pudding . 
Don't say I didn't tell you where to look . 
We shall be able to talk , said I by rapping on the wall , I mean . 
Once for the letter A , twice for the chambermaid , three times for the boots . 
In the meantime , Jonah and you will each have removed a large stone from the floor of your cells by means of a nail which he found in his soup . 
Say you work sixteen hours out of the twenty four you ought to have burrowed outside the gates in about five years . 
Austria would be rather nice , just now , wouldn't it ? she ventured . 
I must have been tired , for I never heard the tea things taken away . 
When I opened my eyes , Berry and Co . 
I looked at the jig saw and began to wonder what had waked me . 
First of all , said a quiet voice , I take five and three quarters . 
Do you think you can remember that ? I'll try . 
Long ones , of course . 
Not the ordinary white kid I like the fawn suede ones . 
And now , please , can I be shown over the house ? I turned and regarded her . 
Sitting easily in a chair to my right , and a little behind me , she was holding out to me a slip of paper . 
I took it mechanically but I did not look at it . 
Don't move for a minute or two , I said . 
You look absolutely splendid like that . 
I rather think her frock was of linen at any rate , it was blue . 
Her left arm lay carelessly along the arm of the chair , and , her sleeve being loose and open , I could see half a dozen inches of warm pink arm . 
I just looked at her . 
I have said before , and I say again , that girls of this type ought not to be allowed to raise their eyebrows and smile faintly at the same moment . 
It amounts to a technical assault . 
I fancy she saw me set my teeth , for the next moment she put up her left hand and bent the broad blue rim over her face . 
Early closing day , she said . 
I contemplated her ankles in silence . 
After a minute Well ? said my companion from behind the brim . 
I hate it when the blinds are down , said I , but But what ? Happily , they are only short blinds . 
It referred to The Grange , which stood in its own grounds about half a mile away . 
Its lodge gates were rather like ours . 
The same mistake had been made before . 
The agent at Bettshanger gave me that to day , and I motored over this afternoon . 
I was walking up the drive how pretty it all is ! when I saw you asleep here . 
I'm so glad you did . 
Why ? Well , you see , they're rather a queer lot up there at the house might have said you couldn't see over , or something . 
She opened her big eyes . 
But I've got an order . 
That's the worst of it . 
They'll take orders from no one . 
Once they'd caught sight of it , you would have been blindfolded and led back to the village by a circuitous route . 
Nonsense ! It's a fact . 
But I'll show you round , all right . 
Anything I can tell you about the place before we move ? She regarded me suspiciously . 
Then Is there a billiard room ? she said . 
And a table complete with three balls , one of latest models slate bed , pneumatic cushions . 
Be careful of the top one it bust the other day . 
The butler had pumped it up too tight . 
Servants' hall ? Every time . 
All the domestic offices are noble . 
In case of fire , call 'Fire Brigade . 
Speak direct to fire station . 
Rather ! You'll have them up under the hour , if they can get the horses . 
All the same , I don't think we shall come here . 
You see , I didn't know it was an asylum . 
It's very cheap , said I. I can do it at ten guineas a week without the inspection pit , that is . 
She leaned forward and laughed . 
Oh dear ! she said , what a thing it is to be really silly sometimes ! She got up and smoothed down her dress . 
And now , please , can I be shown over the house ? With pleasure , I said , getting up . 
That is , unless you'd rather see The Grange first . 
She stared at me for a moment , then she snatched the order out of my hand . 
What's this place ? she demanded . 
Dear pretty Girl Blue , don't be angry . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! I know , but I'm so busy just now that it's done for me . 
My sister is ashamed of me every evening at eight fifteen . 
Matinees on Wednesdays at two . 
Could you come one day ? She laughed in spite of herself . 
Then And now where is this Grange place ? Next but one on the right , but it looks rotten in the evening . 
Besides , they had measles there last May stacks of them . 
Stacks of what ? Measles . 
One of them escaped one day and was brought back by the village corner boy . 
He said he'd have kept it , only he hadn't got a dog licence . 
But The Grange has got a ghost , hasn't it ? And I love ghosts . 
The Grey Lady ? My dear , she's gone . 
Always used to walk the back stairs on third Fridays , and one night the servants left the lights on . 
She gave notice the next day . 
Wanted a change , I think . 
You see , she'd been in one place nearly two hundred years . 
Besides , the stairs were bad . 
It's a nice house , isn't it ? Pretty well . 
But it hasn't got a priest's hole . 
What does that matter ? Well , where are you going to keep the gorgonzolas ? She leaned on the back of a chair and began to laugh helplessly . 
Presently You wretched man ! she said . 
I'm really awfully angry with you . 
You've wasted my time here until it's too late for me to see The Grange , and what on earth I shall tell father I don't know . 
He's not outside ? In the car ? You don't think I should still be here if he was ? No , I came over alone . 
Now you'll be able to help me with this jig saw . 
She gave rather a good gasp at that . 
You've heaps of time , because , if you'd gone to The Grange , you wouldn't have got away yet . 
And it's a nice jig saw , quite one of the family . 
Eats out of your hand , I suppose ? Rather . 
And sits up and barks for Baldwin and all the rest of it . 
'A Young Diana' it's called . 
Appeared in last year's Academy , and But she was down on her knees on the lawn , staring at the tray by now . 
I joined her , wondering a little . 
That's a bit of Merrylegs , she said , picking up one of the pieces , and there's another . 
That's a bit of her dear nose , and there's her white stocking . 
Look here , we'll do her first . 
I sat down on the turf and looked at her . 
Either , I said slowly either you're a witch , and that isn't allowed , or else you've had to learn this picture some time as a punishment . 
I sat for it , she explained . 
It was my turn to gasp . 
It's hanging in the dining room at home now . 
There's a bit of my habit . 
I'll fit them together in a minute . 
I took off my coat , kneeled down beside her , and began to receive Merrylegs piecemeal . 
When she had picked out all of the mare , she cleared a little space , and began fitting the bits together at a rate that was astonishing . 
Then she turned her attention to the background . 
Laid upon its side , the mysterious ladder became a distant fence , and little by little a landscape grew into being under her small fingers . 
Suddenly she caught my arm . 
Somebody's coming ! she whispered . 
I heard footsteps crunch on a path's gravel , then all was silent again . 
Whoever it was , was coming towards us over the lawn . 
A clump of rhododendrons hid us from them , and them from us . 
Behind there ! I whispered , pointing to three tall elms at our back , which grew so close together that they formed a giant screen . 
Hullo ! said I. What are you doing ? Doing ? Yes , you know executing , performing , carrying out ? Go away ! I said . 
You are trespassing upon a private reverie . 
Didn't you see the notice ? He shook his head . 
You have , as it were , burst rudely open the door of the brown study in which I am communing with Nature and one or two of my imagination's friends . 
Kindly apologize and withdraw , closing the door as you go . 
Where's your Thou ? You frightened her away . 
Heard the pattering of my little feet , I suppose ! Yes . 
She wouldn't believe it was only footsteps , but let that pass . 
If she were to hear the same noise forgive me retreating , she would probably return . 
Really think so ? That is my steadfast conviction . 
Well , you go indoors , and we'll see . 
If I don't follow you in five minutes , you'll know you're right . 
Friend , said I , the indecency of your suggestion is almost grotesque . 
To impose upon a timid , trusting Thou is either base or dastardly I forget which . 
I am glad none of the others were here to hear what I feel sure to have been but a thoughtless , idle word . 
Time will heal the wound , brother . 
Till then , where's the jig saw ? An evil beast hath devoured it . 
It is , without doubt , rent in pieces . 
In which case I shall prefer a bill of indictment against you as accessory for mutilation next autumn assize . 
Thanks ! I shall see you at dinner , shan't I ? Not that I want to , but I just shall . 
From your manner , more than from what you say , anyone would think you wanted me to go , old chap . 
Of course , I know you , so it doesn't matter but you ought to be more careful . 
No , I've not taken offence , because I know none was meant but I'm going to go just to teach you a lesson . 
Give my love to Thou , won't you ? Certainly not ! She's had one shock already this afternoon . 
Oh , was to day the first time she'd seen you ? He strolled back to the house . 
When I heard his footsteps on the gravel again , I got up and peered through the rhododendrons . 
I watched him go indoors , and turned to see the girl once more on her knees by the jig saw . 
I kneeled opposite her and watched her at work . 
After a moment she glanced up and met my eyes . 
You'll see the picture better from this side , she said . 
Which picture ? Round you come ! I crawled to her side with a sigh . 
On she went at a wonderful pace . 
When it was nearly finished , she leaned across me and looked at my wrist watch . 
I'll just have time , she whispered half to herself . 
Only just ? Only just . 
Did you speak ? Yes , I did . 
I said 'Damn ! And I'll say it again . 
She leaned on my shoulder and laughed for a second . 
Then I'm sure you wouldn't find that in the Rubaiyat . 
Perhaps Thou didn't have to be back in time for dinner . 
She fell to work again , but I could see she was smiling . 
The loose pieces left were very few now . 
She sat back on her heels and regarded it for a moment . 
Then she slipped sideways on to the lawn , smoothed down her frock , and looked at me . 
Not bad , is it ? she said . 
It's sweet ! You ought to see the original . 
That's why I love it . 
I shall have it framed and keep it in memory of this private view . 
Sentiment , with a vengeance . 
What if it is , Girl Blue ? For answer , she began to pull on her gloves . 
I watched her in silence . 
When they were both on , she rose , and so did I. I'll go as I came , she said . 
Don't come with me to the gate . 
She put out her hand . 
Good bye , I said . 
Good bye , and and thanks for For what , Girl Blue ? For not asking any questions . 
I smiled and turned away . 
Before I had finished my second cigarette , Berry , Daphne , and Jill came round the bank of rhododendrons . 
Why , Boy , said Jill , have you been here all the time ? A cry from Daphne interrupted her . 
The next moment they were all down on their knees poring over my late companion's handiwork . 
A moment later , as with one consent , they all looked up and stared at me . 
I looked away and smoked with careless deliberation . 
How on earth have you done it ? gasped Daphne . 
Done what ? said I. Oh , that ? Oh , it wasn't very hard ! You must be better at them than you were on Saturday , said Jill . 
Have you been practising at the Blahs ? I felt Berry was looking at me , and waited . 
Then it was a glove you were sitting on , he said slowly . 
Berry's a nut every time . 
It was the first week in October , and we were back in town . 
They were all out but me . 
Sunday afternoon it was , and I was alone in the library finishing a little work . 
I picked up the receiver . 
Is that the garage ? said Girl Blue . 
How are you ? Why , it's you ! I know . 
I said so just now . 
Oh , I am glad ! I've waited such a long time ! You must thank the Exchange , not me . 
Don't rub it in ! Well , good bye . 
I don't think you're very kind , Girl Blue . 
No ? No , I don't ! I've got the gloves , by the way . 
I think , she said slowly , I think I may as well take them with me . 
Sign , please ! But when , dear ? Well , I shall be at the Albert Hall next Friday . 
And we'll meet under oh , under Mistletoe , said I. Good bye ! Good bye ! Oh , Girl Blue , I forgot to say Number , please ! said Exchange . 
You've cut me off ! I roared . 
Hullo , dear ! I said . 
Is that the cab rank ? said a man's fat voice . 
No , it isn't , said I. And you've got an ugly face and flat feet , and I hate you ! Then I rang off . 
CHAPTER XV ALL FOUND I had seen her but once before , and that was at the Savoy on New Year's Eve . 
She had been with her party at one table , and I with mine at another . 
And in the midst of the reveling I had chanced to look up and into one of the great mirrors which made a panel upon the wall . 
Not talking , listening , rather , to the words of a man at her side , whose eyes were watching her smiling lips somewhat greedily . 
He had red hair , I remember , and a moustache brushed up to hide a long upper lip . 
And , as I looked , she also had looked up , and our eyes had met . 
There and then I had raised my wine and toasted her her of the looking glass . 
Then she had raised her glass , and drunk to me in return . 
And when Berry had leaned across the table and asked Who's your friend ? I wish I knew . 
Pshaw ! said my brother in law . 
I drank to a thought , said I. Believe me . 
After all , a thought is a reflection . 
And now here she was , sitting in the grass by the wayside . 
She's brown , isn't she ? said I. As a berry . 
And for you , 'picturesque' is the word one of the words . 
Shall I compare you to a summer's day ? I'd rather you collected that cow . 
She's getting too near the river for my liking . 
I'm looking after the dears . 
Are you ? said I. But But what ? 'Quis custodiet The apple she threw passed over my shoulder . 
But these things are not dead . 
Old fashioned wrath is over gone to its long home love is not even wrinkled . 
Yet again it was before wrath . 
Perhaps it does not matter . 
Anyway , it was on the slope of a green meadow all among the mountains of Krain that the girl was sitting , herself unminded , minding her cows . 
And out of the woods above her a round , white tower proclaimed a chateau set on the shoulder of a hill . 
Her dress was that of the country , and yet , perhaps , rather such as Croatian peasants wear . 
But her stockings were of white silk , and small , black buckled slippers kept the little feet . 
Clear , blue eyes hers , and a small merry mouth , and a skin after the sun's own heart . 
It was so brown such an even , delicate brown . 
Brown cheeks and temples , brown arms and hands , brown throat . 
I rounded up the cow errant , returned to my lady , and took my seat by her side . 
Thank you , she said . 
And now , who are you and what do you want ? My name , said I , is Norval . 
Only you ought to have bare brown legs . 
My dear man , this isn't the Garden of Eden . 
No ? Some other Paradise , I suppose . 
Dolls never go barefoot , do they ? Dolls ? Yes . 
Aren't you the 'great big beautiful doll' they sing of ? She threw back her head , and laughed at that , pleasedly . 
Then she began to sing softly Oh , you beautiful doll , You great big beautiful doll . 
We finished the verse together , the cows watching us with big eyes . 
I think we're rather good , said I , when it was over . 
I know we're both mad , said she . 
And I don't feel a bit like singing really , either . 
Oh , great and beautiful one , said I , what is the matter ? Indicate to me the fly that dares to lurk in this fair bowl of ointment . 
She looked away over the river . 
Then After all , it's nothing to do with you . 
said I. Then why do you ask ? Something to say , I suppose . 
Is not the clemency of the weather delightful ? Yes , but those cows belong to me . 
Then My aunt has four eggs , I said simply . 
She turned away , ostensibly to pick a flower , but I saw her shoulders shaking . 
At length There is a pig in the grass , she said . 
The doll is on its hind legs , I replied , getting up . 
As for me , is it not that I shall have been about to go ? Adieu , mademoiselle . 
Er au revoir , monsieur . 
That's better , said I. And now , what's the trouble , my dear ? Well , it was about the chauffeur . 
You see , she was spending the summer here in the chateau . 
Yes , the chateau above us , white on the hillside . 
She and a companion a girl alone , with a household of their own , very happy , very comfortable . 
We are really , you know . 
Truth is , I'd got about sick of men , and thought I'd take a rest . 
Betty followed post haste with the servants and heavy luggage , and and And the parrot ? I hazarded . 
No. Oh , the linen and everything . 
I'd got the car with me . 
We've been here nearly two months now , and I love it more every day . 
Don't miss men a bit , either . 
This last in an inimitable tone , half nonchalant , half defiant . 
I expect they do most of the missing . 
However , I may tell you the family's been rather narky I beg your pardon ? Narky . 
How stupid of me ! Same root as 'snirksome . 
Well , rather ratty about it all . 
Said it was all ridiculous and unheard of . 
Did they use the word 'proceeding' ? They did . 
Ah ! The one thing that sort of stopped them from really doing anything was the fact that Betty was with me . 
Betty's dear , and they all know it . 
And her being here , I suppose , seemed to save it from being what's called an 'impossible position . 
Would like to run over and see me , as they understand Savavic that's me is only thirty miles away . 
Isn't it ! Only , three days ago Betty gets a wire to say her mother's ill , and she has to bolt for the night train to Paris . 
So that uncle dear mustn't come to Savavic at any price . 
If he does , Betty's absence becomes apparent , and the good old 'impossible position' arises at once . 
Much as you would have loved them to see Savavic . 
Oh , I'm often like that . 
Grandpa got his B. A. , I explained . 
We've loaned his hood to the Wallace Collection . 
Well , that all sounds very nice and easy , doesn't it ? Then , to put the lid on , my chauffeur breaks his arm yesterday afternoon . 
And the uncle's due when ? Slept at Laipnik last night . 
I was to have lunched with them to day . 
Oh , the fat's in the fire all right this time . 
I may expect them any time after three . 
Then I'll drive you to Laipnik , said I. I'm as safe as a house at the wheel . 
You're awfully good and kind , said the girl , shaking her head , but it's no good . 
How on earth would I explain you ? It is unnecessary to explain a chauffeur . 
Oh , but you can't Certainly I can . 
At any rate , I'm going to . 
Come along and get changed , mistress . 
I scrambled to my feet . 
If you'll show me the way to the garage , I'll be looking over the car . 
What is she , by the way ? And where does your late chauffeur keep his boots ? Are you an angel ? said the girl , getting up . 
Who told you ? said I. The boots were much too big and the gaiters a little small . 
A long dust coat came down over the tops of the gaiters , making the uniform unnecessary . 
I took the cap to wear when we reached the town . 
It was a big , open car , and all the way to Laipnik the girl , looking priceless in a fawn coloured dress , sat by my side . 
We went like the wind . 
After a while He drives well , said my companion , half to herself . 
Thank you , beautiful doll I should say madam . 
Is that right ? Quite , thanks . 
How are the boots ? A bit spacious . 
I'm afraid I've lost one of my toes already . 
Which one ? Baldwin , said I. He's got separated from the others , you know . 
I'll be able to look for him when we get to Laipnik . 
Told them to keep together , too , I added bitterly . 
She gave a little peal of laughter . 
Then How tiresome she said . 
And I'm afraid your calves weren't made for those gaiters . 
I admit they don't fit as well as your stockings , but Norval . 
By the way , what about my wages ? What do you suggest ? I shan't object to anything reasonable . 
No ? Well , I was getting eleven three a yar day in my last place , and all found especially all . 
'All found''s rather a dangerous phrase . 
It only means washing and beer and the English papers , when you've done with them , and meat on Sundays . 
A smile , too , when I'm tired , and a word of thanks after seventy miles in the rain with a head wind . 
It might cover a multitude of sins , Norval . 
Here I saved a dog's life and passed two wagons before their drivers had had time to inspire the horses with the terror they felt themselves . 
Then 'All found''s all right , if you know your man , said I. But I don't . 
I caught her laughing eyes in the windscreen , and straightway drank to them from an imaginary wine glass . 
She smiled gently , and the eyes looked away with the look that sees at once not at all and yet farthest . 
She was gazing down the vista of memory . 
Then it's a compact , I said quietly . 
I never drank to you this time , Norval . 
Yes , you did , said I. Only with thine eyes , doll beautiful . 
You were wearing a black and gold dress . 
She turned away and pointed to a church we were leaving on our right . 
That , she said , is a church . 
I thought it was a swimming bath . 
She bit the lip that wanted to smile . 
To return to you , who are my mutton , I wish this road wasn't so narrow . 
I can't look at you except in the screen . 
We first met in a looking glass . 
But now I want something more more tangible . 
Indeed ? I glanced down . 
At any rate , I've got your feet , bless them . 
I shall compose a sonnet to them , beautiful doll . 
And I'll write an epic about yours . 
How's the epic going ? said I. I've only done four lines . 
Very good , said I. Now you shall have mine . 
I thought they were stars , And I know they were shining , But so brightly . 
The daintiest things that were ever created . 
Fairies' steps may be slighter , But so slightly . 
You'll think I am mad , but I'm only a blighter . 
I thought they were stars , And I know they were shining . 
I didn't know you were a poet . 
Nor was I till I entered your service , said I. So presently we came to Laipnik . 
I stopped outside the little town , put on my cap , and settled the girl on the back seat . 
Five minutes later we rolled up to the hotel . 
On the steps stood a stout man with a serious face , looking suspiciously at the cigar he had just lighted . 
Hullo , Uncle Dick , said my mistress . 
My dear child , I am glad you've come . 
You aunt's upstairs rather tired , but wild to see you . 
We're going to stay another night here and go on early tomorrow . 
Are you ? I'll come up at once . 
I opened the door of the car and handed her out . 
She kissed her relative and turned to me . 
Er will you er I coughed . 
You will get your own lunch , Norval , and come to the office for orders at half past two . 
As I raised my cap Oh , I feel such a beast , she murmured . 
I never gave Berry and the others a thought till I had eaten my lunch and was musing over my coffee with a cigarette . 
We had told people we were going to fish . 
I think Jonah meant it . 
We others were going to sleep and watch him and sleep again . 
Now , Poganec and Savavic were only seven miles apart , and were served by the same post office . 
In fact , they were at opposite ends of the same valley , in the midst of which , half way between the two , our common village slept in the hot sun . 
It was in the course of my first walk that I had come upon Savavic . 
And now , instead of being at Poganec to welcome them this afternoon , here was I at Laipnik pretending to be a chauffeur . 
What did it matter ? I should be back that evening . 
At half past two I was at the office , and at twenty nine minutes to three my lady appeared in the hall . 
I went to her , cap in hand . 
She turned and walked to a little lounge place out of sight of the office . 
For a moment she did not speak . 
Then Oh , I feel such a beast ! she said passionately . 
Such a beast ! Don't take your cap off to me . 
For heaven's sake , put it on ! And sit down . 
Kiss me , if you like . 
Anything to show you're my own class and not a servant . 
She stopped and passed a hand over her eyes . 
And all the time it's no good . 
You've got to take us out for a drive , and I've got to treat you you like a servant . 
I put my hands on her shoulders and looked into her eyes . 
My dear beautiful doll , don't take it all so seriously . 
You've just got to keep it up and order me about in the most monstrously imperious manner this afternoon , and then in the evening we're going to drive home together . 
And I'm going to get some of my own back then , I don't mind telling you . 
I'll sprawl and smoke cigarettes and shake you , and What else was it you said ? I haven't forgotten that you agreed to 'all found , you know . 
And I think your eyes are absolutely wonderful . 
How did it go ? 'I thought they were stars , And I know they were shining . 
She looked me full in the eyes now , and a grand smile swept into her face . 
Then she put her arms round my neck and kissed me . 
The next moment she was half way up the broad stairs . 
Ten minutes later I brought the car round to the door . 
Niece and uncle and aunt all sat together on the back seat . 
As I shut the door We don't want to go too far , Norval , or too fast . 
Lady Brethe is rather tired . 
I think about twenty miles out and twenty back will do . 
Shall I go towards Savavic ? Yes , I think so . 
Then suddenly for the first time a terrible thought flashed into my mind . 
We were on the very road which Berry and the others must take , coming from Salzburg . 
Here the road broadened , so I slowed down and , in response to a nod from my mistress , proceeded to turn round . 
I accomplished the manoeuvre as in a dream , and ended by stopping the engine . 
This brought me to my senses . 
As we started off again , I became cooler . 
After all , very likely we should not meet them . 
The chances were against it . 
And if we did , I could accelerate and push by them before they knew where they were . 
The bonnet was open , and Jonah's head and hands were inside it . 
Daphne sat still on the back seat , while Jill was sitting on the bank , a posy of wild flowers in her hand . 
Berry leaned easily against the side of the car , his hat over his eyes , watching Jonah at work . 
From his attitude he appeared to be offering idiotic advice . 
So I saw them for less than a second , for the instant they heard us coming , all four started and looked up . 
I was wondering whether I dared accelerate and dash by like a madman . 
I dare say the girl was thinking the same . 
But her uncle settled it . 
Fellow motorists in trouble ? English , apparently , too . 
Wonder if we And the worthy aunt put the lid on . 
Why , she said , if it isn't those nice children we met at the Europe at Salzburg , Dick . 
There was nothing to be done now . 
Then How d'ye do ? said Lord Brethe . 
Berry swallowed , said Er oh , how d'ye do ? and took off his hat . 
The next moment he had himself in hand . 
Daphne got out of the car , and Jonah and Jill came up . 
Greetings were exchanged between them and the Brethes , and my mistress was introduced . 
I sat as one in a trance . 
Then I heard the girl saying nervously I don't know whether my chauffeur can be of any assistance . 
I pulled myself together and got out of the car . 
There never was such a situation . 
The Brethes knew nothing and thought nothing . 
Berry and the others found me about to call them Sir and Madam and to serve them by mending my own car in the capacity of chauffeur to somebody they had never seen . 
And I wanted to burst out into hysterical laughter , swear , kick Berry , and hide in the woods . 
Instead of which , I went up to Jonah , who had gone back to the engine . 
What's the trouble , sir ? Jonah put his head into the bonnet and exploded with silent laughter . 
I put my head in , too , and swore at him in a whisper . 
Then One of the cylinders has been missing since Krainbach , he said . 
I think that's the seat of the trouble . 
But I've only just I think it's the carburettor , sir , said I , with a finger on the float . 
There's practically no petrol in it . 
I tried the pressure pump , but it was no good . 
The petrol pipe was stopped up properly . 
You'll have to have the pipe down , sir . 
How long will that take ? said Lord Brethe , who was standing on the other side of the car , talking to Berry . 
It's half an hour's job at least , my lord . 
Oh , well , you'd better do it . 
Hadn't he , Dolly ? We aren't pressed for time , are we , my dear ? Oh , no . 
That is I mean , of course . 
Please do everything you can , Norval . 
I got some tools out of the tool box and began to take the pipe down . 
Hadn't you better take your dust coat off , man ? said Berry . 
No , thank you , sir . 
Berry turned to Lord Brethe , who had come to watch the operation . 
All this comes through letting my young brother in law play about with the car , he explained airily . 
No , really ? said Lord Brethe . 
He's done more damage , the few times he's driven it , than a skilled chauffeur would do in five years . 
Dear me , said the other . 
Knows nothing of the mechanism , I suppose ? Doesn't know the difference between the carburettor and the er exhaust . 
These young men , he said . 
Here the spanner I was using slipped off a nut . 
Gently , my man , gently , said Berry pleasantly . 
Yes , said Lord Brethe , be careful of the paint . 
Won't you two come and talk to us ? the girl called from the other side of the road . 
I always like watching a repair , dear , replied her uncle . 
And Mr. Pleydel is an expert . 
I think I'd better be here just to supervise , said Berry . 
Er have you your cotton waste handy , man ? It's on the step , sir , I said with an effort . 
Do you want it ? No , no . 
But you should always keep it by you . 
I wiped the sweat off my forehead . 
Will you smoke ? said Lord Brethe , producing a cigar case . 
Ah , thanks , said Berry . 
With the tail of my eye I saw that it was a Corona Corona . 
By this time I had taken the pipe down . 
It was choked with a regular wad of dirt . 
I remembered bitterly that , when I left them at Strasburg , I had begged them never to fill up without a filter . 
So that was the obstruction ? said his lordship . 
Comes of not using a filter , my lord . 
He touched the wad with his foot . 
No , he said loftily . 
This has clearly worked in from the engine . 
It is a piece of valve packing . 
Heaven only knows what he thought he meant . 
But old Brethe lapped it up . 
Heavily I began to replace the pipe . 
As I unscrewed them , I put the nuts on the step . 
Lost something ? said Berry . 
I shall see it directly . 
Never put anything where it can roll off , man . 
When you are executing a repair , always lay your tools on the ground and mark the place . 
It's quicker in the long run . 
Found it ? Yes , sir . 
Wipe it carefully before replacing it . 
He turned to Lord Brethe . 
You'll excuse me , but you can't be too careful , can you ? No , indeed . 
Quite right , quite right , said the old fool . 
We're none of us too old to learn . 
The repair was finished at last . 
The girl , looking flushed and anxious , followed her aunt into the car . 
Lord Brethe climbed in after them . 
It's been awfully kind of you to lend us your chauffeur like this , said Daphne . 
I don't know Oh er that's all right , stammered the girl . 
Only too glad , said Lord Brethe . 
Mr. Pleydel's been very good and given him several wrinkles well worth having . 
Don't mention it , said Berry , with a smirk . 
Here you are , my man . 
I took the crown he offered me in silence and raised my hat . 
A crown is worth ten pence . 
As I was letting in the clutch , I heard Jill's voice on my left . 
Thank you very much indeed for helping us so beautifully , she said , and laid her posy of wild flowers on the seat by my side . 
As we moved off What a queer child ! said Lady Brethe . 
Two hours later the girl and I slipped once more out of Laipnik . 
When we were clear of the town , I stopped for a moment , and she took her old seat by my side . 
For a minute or two neither of us spoke . 
Then she reached up and took off my cap and pitched it behind into the car . 
I wanted to do that a dozen times this afternoon , she said . 
And I'd have done it , too , if I'd had the courage of a field mouse . 
You know what I've wanted to do a dozen times this afternoon , don't you ? And these odious people . 
Will you ever forgive me ? If it's any consolation to you , I nearly died of shame . 
And I nearly punched Berry's head and spoiled it all . 
When I had finished It was nice of Jill to give you those flowers , she said . 
But I shall never forgive Berry . 
He's only human , said I. And he really was awfully funny . 
I shall tell him what I think of him . 
We've all done that once a week for five years . 
My dear , he's quite hopeless . 
Besides , he gave me a whole crown . 
And uncle gave you five . 
I nearly cried , it made me so angry . 
Six altogether , said I. I bought you some carnations with them . 
Sweet of you , Norval . 
Coals of fire ? No , dear . 
Isn't that beautiful ? We had climbed until we were at the top of a pass . 
Over the mountains the sun was going down . 
The great valley was already in shadow , but the light on the high woods was wonderful . 
Away on the top of a hill a little white shrine stood up like a candlestick against the sky . 
A rosy flush lay on the distant snow mountains , and the heavens themselves were filled with a great red glory . 
The same thought occurred to both of us . 
Who wouldn't be a day ? said I. It's worth living only twelve hours to die a death like that . 
We reached Savavic about half past seven . 
I drove straight to the garage . 
She watched me put the car away and waited while I slipped into my brogues . 
Then Now I must be off to Poganec , said I. So endeth the first day's service . 
Am I dismissed , then ? Oh , well Of course , if you're not satisfied , madam But I am , only Then , said I , I'll stop on . 
Good night , beautiful Doll . 
I swept off my hat and turned to go . 
Don't you want to er shake me ? said Dolly . 
I reached Poganec just as they were finishing dinner . 
As I entered the room Hullo , said Berry . 
This your night out ? That'll do . 
said I. You had your show this afternoon . 
My show ? My humiliation , said my brother in law . 
My wife's brother in service . 
How can I ever hold up this noble head again ? And this after all my years of striving to elevate . 
I shan't want you any more to night . 
Don't forget the ah wrinkle I gave you about the cotton waste . 
Fancy Boy earning some money ! said Daphne . 
What wages d'you get ? Six and tenpence farthing a week , said I , and all found . 
That's a dangerous phrase , said Jonah . 
It includes boots , we know . 
What else besides boots ? Depends on the man , said I. It does , said Daphne . 
And that's why you've got to give notice at once . 
Notice ? I felt Jill's hand pushing my hair back from my forehead . 
She was standing behind my chair . 
Yes , she said , and come back to us . 
Fact is , Boy , we can't spare you . 
