Scanner Hewlett Packard Scanjet IICX OCR WordScan Version . 
Spell check Word for Windows . 
Children do that sort of thing successfully , but children are content to convince themselves , and do not vulgarise their beliefs by trying to convince other people . 
Leonard Bilsiter's beliefs were for the few , that is to say , anyone who would listen to him . 
His dabblings in the unseen might not have carried him beyond the customary platitudes of the drawing room visionary if accident had not reinforced his stock in trade of mystical lore . 
Leonard returned to his home circle garrulous about his Russian strike experiences , but oppressively reticent about certain dark mysteries , which he alluded to under the resounding title of Siberian Magic . 
As a manifestation of the possession of supernatural powers , the story was discounted in some quarters by the respect accorded to Mrs. Hoops' powers of imagination . 
I wish you would turn me into a wolf , Mr. Bilsiter , said his hostess at luncheon the day after his arrival . 
My dear Mary , said Colonel Hampton , I never knew you had a craving in that direction . 
A she wolf , of course , continued Mrs. Hampton it would be too confusing to change one's sex as well as one's species at a moment's notice . 
I don't think one should jest on these subjects , said Leonard . 
I'm not jesting , I'm quite serious , I assure you . 
Only don't do it to day we have only eight available bridge players , and it would break up one of our tables . 
To morrow we shall be a larger party . 
Have you such a thing as a she wolf in your collection of wild animals ? A she wolf of moderately good temper ? Lord Pabham considered . 
There is Loiusa , he said , a rather fine specimen of the timber wolf . 
I got her two years ago in exchange for some Arctic foxes . 
Most of my animals get to be fairly tame before they've been with me very long I think I can say Louisa has an angelic temper , as she wolves go . 
Lord Pabham stared at Clovis for a moment in pardonable bewilderment then his face broke into a wrinkled network of laughter . 
Oh , that's your game , is it ? You are going to do a little Siberian Magic on your own account . 
And is Mrs. Hampton willing to be a fellow conspirator ? Mary is pledged to see me through with it , if you will guarantee Louisa's temper . 
I'll answer for Louisa , said Lord Pabham . 
By the following day the house party had swollen to larger proportions , and Bilsiter's instinct for self advertisement expanded duly under the stimulant of an increased audience . 
His aunt ensured a respectful hearing for his utterances , but her sensation loving soul hankered after something more dramatic than mere vocal demonstration . 
Won't you do something to CONVINCE them of your powers , Leonard ? she pleaded change something into another shape . 
He can , you know , if he only chooses to , she informed the company . 
Oh , do , said Mavis Pellington earnestly , and her request was echoed by nearly everyone present . 
Even those who were not open to conviction were perfectly willing to be entertained by an exhibition of amateur conjuring . 
Leonard felt that something tangible was expected of him . 
I have already warned you of the danger of treating these powers in a mocking spirit , said Leonard solemnly . 
I don't believe you can do it , laughed Mary provocatively from the conservatory I dare you to do it if you can . 
I defy you to turn me into a wolf . 
As she said this she was lost to view behind a clump of azaleas . 
Mrs. Hampton began Leonard with increased solemnity , but he got no further . 
A breath of chill air seemed to rush across the room , and at the same time the macaws broke forth into ear splitting screams . 
In various attitudes of helpless horror or instinctive defence they confronted the evil looking grey beast that was peering at them from amid a setting of fern and azalea . 
Mrs. Hoops was the first to recover from the general chaos of fright and bewilderment . 
Leonard ! she screamed shrilly to her nephew , turn it back into Mrs. Hampton at once ! It may fly at us at any moment . 
Turn it back ! I I don't know how to , faltered Leonard , who looked more scared and horrified than anyone . 
I assure you I didn't turn Mrs. Hampton into a wolf nothing was farther from my intentions , he protested . 
Then where is she , and how came that animal into the conservatory ? demanded the Colonel . 
Of course we must accept your assurance that you didn't turn Mrs. Hampton into a wolf , said Clovis politely , but you will agree that appearances are against you . 
Are we to have all these recriminations with that beast standing there ready to tear us to pieces ? wailed Mavis indignantly . 
Lord Pabham , you know a good deal about wild beasts suggested Colonel Hampton . 
The wild beasts that I have been accustomed to , said Lord Pabham , have come with proper credentials from well known dealers , or have been bred in my own menagerie . 
I've never before been confronted with an animal that walks unconcernedly out of an azalea bush , leaving a charming and popular hostess unaccounted for . 
I absolutely forbid it , thundered the Colonel . 
Most wolves that I've had anything to do with have been inordinately fond of sugar , said Lord Pabham if you like I'll try the effect on this one . 
He took a piece of sugar from the saucer of his coffee cup and flung it to the expectant Louisa , who snapped it in mid air . 
The sigh deepened to a gasp of thanks giving when Lord Pabham decoyed the animal out of the room by a pretended largesse of further sugar . 
There was an instant rush to the vacated conservatory . 
There was no trace of Mrs. Hampton except the plate containing the macaws' supper . 
The door is locked on the inside ! exclaimed Clovis , who had deftly turned the key as he affected to test it . 
Bilsiter's reiterated disclaimer was met with a general murmur of impatient disbelief . 
I refuse to stay another hour under this roof , declared Mavis Pellington . 
If our hostess has really vanished out of human form , said Mrs. Hoops , none of the ladies of the party can very well remain . 
I absolutely decline to be chaperoned by a wolf ! It's a she wolf , said Clovis soothingly . 
The correct etiquette to be observed under the unusual circumstances received no further elucidation . 
The sudden entry of Mary Hampton deprived the discussion of its immediate interest . 
Some one has mesmerised me , she exclaimed crossly I found myself in the game larder , of all places , being fed with sugar by Lord Pabham . 
I hate being mesmerised , and the doctor has forbidden me to touch sugar . 
The situation was explained to her , as far as it permitted of anything that could be called explanation . 
Then you REALLY did turn me into a wolf , Mr. Bilsiter ? she exclaimed excitedly . 
But Leonard had burned the boat in which he might now have embarked on a sea of glory . 
He could only shake his head feebly . 
I yielded to that temptation . 
May I have some brandy ? the effort has left me rather faint . 
If Leonard Bilsiter could at that moment have transformed Clovis into a cockroach and then have stepped on him he would gladly have performed both operations . 
LAURA YOU are not really dying , are you ? asked Amanda . 
I have the doctor's permission to live till Tuesday , said Laura . 
But to day is Saturday this is serious ! gasped Amanda . 
I don't know about it being serious it is certainly Saturday , said Laura . 
Death is always serious , said Amanda . 
I never said I was going to die . 
I am presumably going to leave off being Laura , but I shall go on being something . 
An animal of some kind , I suppose . 
You see , when one hasn't been very good in the life one has just lived , one reincarnates in some lower organism . 
And I haven't been very good , when one comes to think of it . 
I've been petty and mean and vindictive and all that sort of thing when circumstances have seemed to warrant it . 
Circumstances never warrant that sort of thing , said Amanda hastily . 
If you don't mind my saying so , observed Laura , Egbert is a circumstance that would warrant any amount of that sort of thing . 
You're married to him that's different you've sworn to love , honour , and endure him I haven't . 
I don't see what's wrong with Egbert , protested Amanda . 
Oh , I daresay the wrongness has been on my part , admitted Laura dispassionately he has merely been the extenuating circumstance . 
He made a thin , peevish kind of fuss , for instance , when I took the collie puppies from the farm out for a run the other day . 
They chased his young broods of speckled Sussex and drove two sitting hens off their nests , besides running all over the flower beds . 
You know how devoted he is to his poultry and garden . 
Anyhow , he needn't have gone on about it for the entire evening and then have said , Let's say no more about it' just when I was beginning to enjoy the discussion . 
How could you ? exclaimed Amanda . 
It came quite easy , said Laura two of the hens pretended to be laying at the time , but I was firm . 
And we thought it was an accident ! You see , resumed Laura , I really HAVE some grounds for supposing that my next incarnation will be in a lower organism . 
I shall be an animal of some kind . 
I can't imagine you as an otter , said Amanda . 
Well , I don't suppose you can imagine me as an angel , if it comes to that , said Laura . 
I wish you would be serious , sighed Amanda you really ought to be if you're only going to live till Tuesday . 
As a matter of fact Laura died on Monday . 
So dreadfully upsetting , Amanda complained to her uncle in law , Sir Lulworth Quayne . 
I've asked quite a lot of people down for golf and fishing , and the rhododendrons are just looking their best . 
Laura always was inconsiderate , said Sir Lulworth she was born during Goodwood week , with an Ambassador staying in the house who hated babies . 
She had the maddest kind of ideas , said Amanda do you know if there was any insanity in her family ? Insanity ? No , I never heard of any . 
Her father lives in West Kensington , but I believe he's sane on all other subjects . 
She had an idea that she was going to be reincarnated as an otter , said Amanda . 
One meets with those ideas of reincarnation so frequently , even in the West , said Sir Lulworth , that one can hardly set them down as being mad . 
And Laura was such an unaccountable person in this life that I should not like to lay down definite rules as to what she might be doing in an after state . 
You think she really might have passed into some animal form ? asked Amanda . 
She was one of those who shape their opinions rather readily from the standpoint of those around them . 
Just then Egbert entered the breakfast room , wearing an air of bereavement that Laura's demise would have been insufficient , in itself , to account for . 
Four of my speckled Sussex have been killed , he exclaimed the very four that were to go to the show on Friday . 
One of them was dragged away and eaten right in the middle of that new carnation bed that I've been to such trouble and expense over . 
Was it a fox , do you think ? asked Amanda . 
Sounds more like a polecat , said Sir Lulworth . 
Amanda looked quickly and furtively across at Sir Lulworth . 
Egbert was too agitated to eat any breakfast , and went out to superintend the strengthening of the poultry yard defences . 
I think she might at least have waited till the funeral was over , said Amanda in a scandalised voice . 
It's her own funeral , you know , said Sir Lulworth it's a nice point in etiquette how far one ought to show respect to one's own mortal remains . 
Disregard for mortuary convention was carried to further lengths next day during the absence of the family at the funeral ceremony the remaining survivors of the speckled Sussex were massacred . 
The marauder's line of retreat seemed to have embraced most of the flower beds on the lawn , but the strawberry beds in the lower garden had also suffered . 
I shall get the otter hounds to come here at the earliest possible moment , said Egbert savagely . 
On no account ! You can't dream of such a thing ! exclaimed Amanda . 
I mean , it wouldn't do , so soon after a funeral in the house . 
It's a case of necessity , said Egbert once an otter takes to that sort of thing it won't stop . 
Perhaps it will go elsewhere now there are no more fowls left , suggested Amanda . 
One would think you wanted to shield the beast , said Egbert . 
There's been so little water in the stream lately , objected Amanda it seems hardly sporting to hunt an animal when it has so little chance of taking refuge anywhere . 
Good gracious ! fumed Egbert , I'm not thinking about sport . 
I want to have the animal killed as soon as possible . 
On the evening preceding the day fixed for the hunt Amanda spent a solitary hour walking by the banks of the stream , making what she imagined to be hound noises . 
It was charitably supposed by those who overheard her performance , that she was practising for farmyard imitations at the forth coming village entertainment . 
It was her friend and neighbour , Aurora Burret , who brought her news of the day's sport . 
Pity you weren't out we had quite a good day . 
We found at once , in the pool just below your garden . 
Did you kill ? asked Amanda . 
Your husband got rather badly bitten in trying to 'tail it . 
Poor beast , I felt quite sorry for it , it had such a human look in its eyes when it was killed . 
Change of scene speedily brought about the desired recovery of health and mental balance . 
The escapades of an adventurous otter in search of a variation of diet were viewed in their proper light . 
Amanda's normally placid temperament reasserted itself . 
What is the matter ? What has happened ? she asked in amused curiosity . 
A little beast of a naked brown Nubian boy , spluttered Egbert . 
And now Amanda is seriously ill . 
I went all over the place last year when the family were away . 
Isn't it a lot of trouble to take for getting admittance to a garden party ? To a garden party , yes to THE garden party of the season , certainly not . 
I stopped Mrs. Cuvering in the road yesterday and talked very pointedly about the Princess . 
They'll find the door locked , and they'll jolly well have to go back the way they came , she remarked to herself . 
Serves them right for not coming in by the proper entrance . 
What a pity Tarquin Superbus isn't loose in the paddock . 
After all , as every one else is enjoying themselves , I don't see why Tarquin shouldn't have an afternoon out . 
What a villainous looking animal , exclaimed Mrs. Stossen it wasn't there when we came in . 
It's there now , anyhow , said her daughter . 
What on earth are we to do ? I wish we had never come . 
Shoo ! Hish ! Hish ! Shoo ! cried the ladies in chorus . 
As she made the observation aloud Mrs. Stossen became for the first time aware of her presence . 
Little girl , can you find some one to drive away she began hopefully . 
COMMENT ? COMPRENDS PAS , was the response . 
Oh , are you French ? ETES VOUS FRANCAISE ? PAS DE TOUS . 
Then why not talk English ? I want to know if PERMETTEZ MOI EXPLIQUER . 
You see , I'm rather under a cloud , said Matilda . 
It seems they thought I ate too much raspberry trifle at lunch , and they said Claude never eats too much raspberry trifle . 
That is why I am not allowed to go to the party , and as an additional punishment I must speak French all the afternoon . 
MAIS MAINTENANT , NOUS PARLONS FRANCAIS . 
Oh , very well , TRES BIEN , said Mrs. Stossen reluctantly in moments of flurry such French as she knew was not under very good control . 
LA , A L'AUTRE COTE DE LA PORTE , EST UN COCHON UN COCHON ? AH , LE PETIT CHARMANT ! exclaimed Matilda with enthusiasm . 
French is a dreadfully unsexing language . 
For goodness' sake let us talk English then , said Mrs. Stossen . 
Is there any way out of this garden except through the paddock where the pig is ? I always go over the wall , by way of the plum tree , said Matilda . 
Dressed as we are we could hardly do that , said Mrs. Stossen it was difficult to imagine her doing it in any costume . 
Do you think you could go and get some one who would drive the pig away ? asked Miss Stossen . 
I promised my aunt I would stay here till five o'clock it's not four yet . 
I am sure , under the circumstances , your aunt would permit My conscience would not permit , said Matilda with cold dignity . 
We can't stay here till five o'clock , exclaimed Mrs. Stossen with growing exasperation . 
Shall I recite to you to make the time pass quicker ? asked Matilda obligingly . 
Belinda , the little Breadwinner , is considered my best piece , or , perhaps , it ought to be something in French . 
Henri Quatre's address to his soldiers is the only thing I really know in that language . 
If you will go and fetch some one to drive that animal away I will give you something to buy yourself a nice present , said Mrs. Stossen . 
Matilda came several inches lower down the medlar tree . 
Only the other day a Russian lady gave him ten shillings . 
Russians understand the art of giving far better than we do . 
Yes , he'll be QUITE two pounds ahead of me by now . 
With much probing and plucking and many regretful murmurs the beleaguered ladies managed to produce seven and sixpence between them . 
I am afraid this is all we've got , said Mrs. Stossen . 
Matilda showed no sign of coming down either to the earth or to their figure . 
I could not do violence to my conscience for anything less than ten shillings , she announced stiffly . 
Mother and daughter muttered certain remarks under their breath , in which the word beast was prominent , and probably had no reference to Tarquin . 
I find I HAVE got another half crown , said Mrs. Stossen in a shaking voice here you are . 
Now please fetch some one quickly . 
Matilda slipped down from the tree , took possession of the donation , and proceeded to pick up a handful of over ripe medlars from the grass at her feet . 
Then she climbed over the gate and addressed herself affectionately to the boar pig . 
Come , Tarquin , dear old boy you know you can't resist medlars when they're rotten and squashy . 
By dint of throwing the fruit in front of him at judicious intervals Matilda decoyed him back to his stye , while the delivered captives hurried across the paddock . 
Well , I never ! The little minx ! exclaimed Mrs. Stossen when she was safely on the high road . 
If you examine the books of the fund you will find the acknowledgment Collected by Miss Matilda Cuvering , s . 
THE BROGUE THE hunting season had come to an end , and the Mullets had not succeeded in selling the Brogue . 
The unkinder wits of the neighbourhood had been known to suggest that the first letter of its name was superfluous . 
The Brogue knew the country intimately , having personally created most of the gaps that were to be met with in banks and hedges for many miles round . 
His manners and characteristics were not ideal in the hunting field , but he was probably rather safer to ride to hounds than he was as a hack on country roads . 
The Mullet family contradicted the widely prevalent report that the horse was a confirmed crib biter . 
You know our new neighbour , Mr. Penricarde ? she vociferated awfully rich , owns tin mines in Cornwall , middle aged and rather quiet . 
He's taken the Red House on a long lease and spent a lot of money on alterations and improvements . 
Well , Toby's sold him the Brogue ! Clovis spent a moment or two in assimilating the astonishing news then he broke out into unstinted congratulation . 
If he had belonged to a more emotional race he would probably have kissed Mrs. Mullet . 
How wonderfully lucky to have pulled it off at last ! Now you can buy a decent animal . 
I've always said that Toby was clever . 
It's the most unfortunate thing that could have happened ! said Mrs. Mullet dramatically . 
Clovis stared at her in amazement . 
Slight at first , but now unmistakable . 
I was a fool not to have seen it sooner . 
And he's asked her to go round the links with him to morrow . 
And now , just at this critical moment , Toby has sold him that animal . 
It's a calamity ! But you've been trying to get the horse off your hands for years , said Clovis . 
I don't know , said Clovis , I've never counted , but I expect you're right as to the number mothers generally know these things . 
And now , continued Mrs. Mullet , in her tragic whisper , when there's a rich husband in prospect imminent on the horizon Toby goes and sells him that miserable animal . 
It will probably kill him if he tries to ride it anyway it will kill any affection he might have felt towards any member of our family . 
No one who knew the horse could possibly suspect you of wanting to get it back again . 
Well , Jessie must try and get it back from Penricarde on the plea that it's an old favourite . 
It sounds a queer proceeding to ask for a horse back when you've just sold him , said Mrs. Mullet , but something must be done , and done at once . 
The man is not used to horses , and I believe I told him it was as quiet as a lamb . 
After all , lambs go kicking and twisting about as if they were demented , don't they ? The lamb has an entirely unmerited character for sedateness , agreed Clovis . 
Jessie came back from the golf links next day in a state of mingled elation and concern . 
It's all right about the proposal , she announced he came out with it at the sixth hole . 
I said I must have time to think it over . 
I accepted him at the seventh . 
My dear , said her mother , I think a little more maidenly reserve and hesitation would have been advisable , as you've known him so short a time . 
You might have waited till the ninth hole . 
The seventh is a very long hole , said Jessie besides , the tension was putting us both off our game . 
By the time we'd got to the ninth hole we'd settled lots of things . 
The honeymoon is to be spent in Corsica , with perhaps a flying visit to Naples if we feel like it , and a week in London to wind up with . 
Two of his nieces are to be asked to be bridesmaids , so with our lot there will be seven , which is rather a lucky number . 
You are to wear your pearl grey , with any amount of Honiton lace jabbed into it . 
By the way , he's coming over this evening to ask your consent to the whole affair . 
So far all's well , but about the Brogue it's a different matter . 
I told him the legend about the stable , and how keen we were about buying the horse back , but he seems equally keen on keeping it . 
He said he must have horse exercise now that he's living in the country , and he's going to start riding tomorrow . 
Clovis was sent for in haste , and the developments of the situation put before him . 
I did hint to Mr. Penricarde to Vincent , I should say that the Brogue didn't like white gates , said Jessie . 
He's taken rather a dislike to turkeys lately , said Toby . 
It's obvious that Penricarde mustn't be allowed to go out on that animal , said Clovis , at least not till Jessie has married him , and tired of him . 
I tell you what ask him to a picnic to morrow , starting at an early hour he's not the sort to go out for a ride before breakfast . 
The day after I'll get the rector to drive him over to Crowleigh before lunch , to see the new cottage hospital they're building there . 
The Brogue will be standing idle in the stable and Toby can offer to exercise it then it can pick up a stone or something of the sort and go conveniently lame . 
If you hurry on the wedding a bit the lameness fiction can be kept up till the ceremony is safely over . 
Mrs. Mullet belonged to an emotional race , and she kissed Clovis . 
It was nobody's fault that the rain came down in torrents the next morning , making a picnic a fantastic impossibility . 
It was also nobody's fault , but sheer ill luck , that the weather cleared up sufficiently in the afternoon to tempt Mr. Penricarde to make his first essay with the Brogue . 
In the list of wedding presents which the local newspaper published a fortnight or so later appeared the following item Brown saddle horse , 'The Brogue , bridegroom's gift to bride . 
Which shows , said Toby Mullet , that he knew nothing . 
Or else , said Clovis , that he has a very pleasing wit . 
THE HEN DORA BITTHOLZ is coming on Thursday , said Mrs. Sangrail . 
This next Thursday ? asked Clovis His mother nodded . 
You'll never get her out of the house by Thursday . 
Why should I ? asked Mrs. Sangrail she and Dora are good friends , aren't they ? They used to be , as far as I remember . 
They used to be that's what makes them all the more bitter now . 
Each feels that she has nursed a viper in her bosom . 
Nothing fans the flame of human resentment so much as the discovery that one's bosom has been utilised as a snake sanatorium . 
But what has happened ? Has some one been making mischief ? Not exactly , said Clovis a hen came between them . 
A hen ? What hen ? It was a bronze Leghorn or some such exotic breed , and Dora sold it to Jane at a rather exotic price . 
They both go in for prize poultry , you know , and Jane thought she was going to get her money back in a large family of pedigree chickens . 
How ridiculous ! said Mrs. Sangrail . 
Couldn't some of their friends compose the quarrel ? People tried , said Clovis , but it must have been rather like composing the storm music of the Fliegende Hollander . 
It's a most awkward situation , said Mrs. Sangrail . 
Do you suppose they won't speak to one another ? On the contrary , the difficulty will be to get them to leave off . 
Their remarks on each other's conduct and character have hitherto been governed by the fact that only four ounces of plain speaking can be sent through the post for a penny . 
I can't put Dora off , said Mrs. Sangrail . 
I've already postponed her visit once , and nothing short of a miracle would make Jane leave before her self allotted fortnight is over . 
Miracles are rather in my line , said Clovis . 
I don't pretend to be very hopeful in this case but I'll do my best . 
As long as you don't drag me into it stipulated his mother . 
It was partly compounded of old brandy and partly of curacoa there were other ingredients , but they were never indiscriminately revealed . 
But I don't see what you have to complain of your mother is so wonderfully lucky in her servants . 
Sturridge , for instance he's been with you for years , and I'm sure he's a paragon as butlers go . 
That's just the trouble , said Clovis . 
It's when servants have been with you for years that they become a really serious nuisance . 
The 'here to day and gone to morrow' sort don't matter you've simply got to replace them it's the stayers and the paragons that are the real worry . 
But if they give satisfaction That doesn't prevent them from giving trouble . 
Now , you've mentioned Sturridge it was Sturridge I was particularly thinking of when I made the observation about servants being a nuisance . 
The excellent Sturridge a nuisance ! I can't believe it . 
I know he's excellent , and we just couldn't get along without him he's the one reliable element in this rather haphazard household . 
But his very orderliness has had an effect on him . 
Exactly , said Clovis thoughtfully , swallowing his completed Ella Wheeler Wilcox . 
But Sturridge hasn't gone mad , said Jane with a flutter of inquiry in her voice . 
What sort of delusions ? Unfortunately they usually centre round one of the guests of the house party , and that is where the awkwardness comes in . 
Whatever did you do about it ? Oh , Matilda got fed , after a fashion , but it was judged to be best for her to cut her visit short . 
It was really the only thing to be done , said Clovis with some emphasis . 
I shouldn't have done that , said Jane , I should have humoured him in some way . 
I certainly shouldn't have gone away . 
It is not always wise to humour people when they get these ideas into their heads . 
There's no knowing to what lengths they may go if you encourage them . 
You don't mean to say he might be dangerous , do you ? asked Jane with some anxiety . 
One can never be certain , said Clovis now and then he gets some idea about a guest which might take an unfortunate turn . 
That is precisely what is worrying me at the present moment . 
What , has he taken a fancy about some one here now ? asked Jane excitedly how thrilling ! Do tell me who it is . 
You , said Clovis briefly . 
Who on earth does he think I am ? Queen Anne , was the unexpected answer . 
Queen Anne ! What an idea . 
But , anyhow , there's nothing dangerous about her she's such a colourless personality . 
What does posterity chiefly say about Queen Anne ? asked Clovis rather sternly . 
The only thing that I can remember about her , said Jane , is the saying 'Queen Anne's dead . 
Exactly , said Clovis , staring at the glass that had held the Ella Wheeler Wilcox , dead . 
Do you mean he takes me for the ghost of Queen Anne ? asked Jane . 
No one ever heard of a ghost that came down to breakfast and ate kidneys and toast and honey with a healthy appetite . 
No , it's the fact of you being so very much alive and flourishing that perplexes and annoys him . 
But he wouldn't be downright hostile to me on that account , would he ? Jane asked anxiously . 
That's why I mentioned the matter to you . 
This is awful , said Jane your mother must be told about it at once . 
My mother mustn't hear a word about it , said Clovis earnestly it would upset her dreadfully . 
She relies on Sturridge for everything . 
But he might kill me at any moment , protested Jane . 
Not at any moment he's busy with the silver all the afternoon . 
Clovis swore horribly under his breath the miracle was an obvious misfire . 
It was in the hall the next morning after a late breakfast that Clovis had his final inspiration as he stood engaged in coaxing rust spots from an old putter . 
Where is Miss Martlet ? he asked the butler , who was at that moment crossing the hall . 
Writing letters in the morning room , sir , said Sturridge , announcing a fact of which his questioner was already aware . 
She wants to copy the inscription on that old basket hilted sabre , said Clovis , pointing to a venerable weapon hanging on the wall . 
I wish you'd take it to her my hands are all over oil . 
Take it without the sheath , it will be less trouble . 
The butler drew the blade , still keen and bright in its well cared for old age , and carried it into the morning room . 
There was a door near the writing table leading to a back stairway Jane vanished through it with such lightning rapidity that the butler doubted whether she had seen him come in . 
Half an hour later Clovis was driving her and her hastily packed luggage to the station . 
It wouldn't do to alarm her unnecessarily about Sturridge . 
Jane sniffed slightly at Clovis' ideas of unnecessary alarm , and was almost rude to the young man who came round with thoughtful inquiries as to luncheon baskets . 
THE OPEN WINDOW MY aunt will be down presently , Mr. Nuttel , said a very self possessed young lady of fifteen in the meantime you must try and put up with me . 
Framton Nuttel endeavoured to say the correct something which should duly flatter the niece of the moment without unduly discounting the aunt that was to come . 
Privately he doubted more than ever whether these formal visits on a succession of total strangers would do much towards helping the nerve cure which he was supposed to be undergoing . 
I shall just give you letters of introduction to all the people I know there . 
Some of them , as far as I can remember , were quite nice . 
Framton wondered whether Mrs. Sappleton , the lady to whom he was presenting one of the letters of introduction , came into the nice division . 
Do you know many of the people round here ? asked the niece , when she judged that they had had sufficient silent communion . 
Hardly a soul , said Framton . 
My sister was staying here , at the rectory , you know , some four years ago , and she gave me letters of introduction to some of the people here . 
He made the last statement in a tone of distinct regret . 
Then you know practically nothing about my aunt ? pursued the self possessed young lady . 
Only her name and address , admitted the caller . 
He was wondering whether Mrs. Sappleton was in the married or widowed state . 
An undefinable something about the room seemed to suggest masculine habitation . 
Her great tragedy happened just three years ago , said the child that would be since your sister's time . 
Her tragedy ? asked Framton somehow in this restful country spot tragedies seemed out of place . 
You may wonder why we keep that window wide open on an October afternoon , said the niece , indicating a large French window that opened on to a lawn . 
In crossing the moor to their favourite snipe shooting ground they were all three engulfed in a treacherous piece of bog . 
It had been that dreadful wet summer , you know , and places that were safe in other years gave way suddenly without warning . 
Their bodies were never recovered . 
That was the dreadful part of it . 
Here the child's voice lost its self possessed note and became falteringly human . 
That is why the window is kept open every evening till it is quite dusk . 
It was a relief to Framton when the aunt bustled into the room with a whirl of apologies for being late in making her appearance . 
I hope Vera has been amusing you ? she said . 
She has been very interesting , said Framton . 
I hope you don't mind the open window , said Mrs. Sappleton briskly my husband and brothers will be home directly from shooting , and they always come in this way . 
They've been out for snipe in the marshes to day , so they'll make a fine mess over my poor carpets . 
So like you men folk , isn't it ? She rattled on cheerfully about the shooting and the scarcity of birds , and the prospects for duck in the winter . 
To Framton it was all purely horrible . 
It was certainly an unfortunate coincidence that he should have paid his visit on this tragic anniversary . 
On the matter of diet they are not so much in agreement , he continued . 
No ? said Mrs. Sappleton , in a voice which only replaced a yawn at the last moment . 
Then she suddenly brightened into alert attention but not to what Framton was saying . 
Here they are at last ! she cried . 
The child was staring out through the open window with dazed horror in her eyes . 
In a chill shock of nameless fear Framton swung round in his seat and looked in the same direction . 
A tired brown spaniel kept close at their heels . 
A cyclist coming along the road had to run into the hedge to avoid an imminent collision . 
Here we are , my dear , said the bearer of the white mackintosh , coming in through the window fairly muddy , but most of it's dry . 
One would think he had seen a ghost . 
I expect it was the spaniel , said the niece calmly he told me he had a horror of dogs . 
Enough to make anyone their nerve . 
Romance at short notice was her speciality . 
THE TREASURE SHIP THE great galleon lay in semi retirement under the sand and weed and water of the northern bay where the fortune of war and weather had long ago ensconced it . 
Three and a quarter centuries had passed since the day when it had taken the high seas as an important unit of a fighting squadron precisely which squadron the learned were not agreed . 
The galleon had brought nothing into the world , but it had , according to tradition and report , taken much out of it . 
But how much ? There again the learned were in disagreement . 
Of the former school was Lulu , Duchess of Dulverton . 
was an electric suction dredge , specially designed for dragging to the surface such objects of interest and value as might be found in the more accessible levels of the ocean bed . 
The rights of the invention were to be acquired for a matter of eighteen hundred francs , and the apparatus for a few thousand more . 
The Duchess of Dulverton was rich , as the world counted wealth she nursed the hope , of being one day rich at her own computation . 
After all , one of her ancestors on her mother's side was descended from Medina Sidonia , so she was of opinion that she had as much right to the treasure as anyone . 
She acquired the invention and bought the apparatus . 
Where money was in question Vasco's conscience was liable to fits of obstinate silence . 
Lulu seldom went there herself , but she lent the house lavishly to friends and relations . 
She put it now at Vasco's disposal . 
In less than three weeks Vasco turned up in town to report progress . 
The apparatus works beautifully , he informed his aunt the deeper one got the clearer everything grew . 
We found something in the way of a sunken wreck to operate on , too ! A wreck in Innisgluther Bay ! exclaimed Lulu . 
A submerged motor boat , the SUB ROSA , said Vasco . 
No ! really ? said Lulu poor Billy Yuttley's boat . 
I remember it went down somewhere off that coast some three years ago . 
His body was washed ashore at the Point . 
People said at the time that the boat was capsized intentionally a case of suicide , you know . 
People always say that sort of thing when anything tragic happens . 
In this case they were right , said Vasco . 
What do you mean ? asked the Duchess hurriedly . 
What makes you think so ? I know , said Vasco simply . 
Know ? How can you know ? How can anyone know ? The thing happened three years ago . 
In a locker of the SUB ROSA I found a water tight strong box . 
Vasco paused with dramatic effect and searched for a moment in the inner breast pocket of his coat . 
He drew out a folded slip of paper . 
The Duchess snatched at it in almost indecent haste and moved appreciably nearer the fireplace . 
Was this in the SUB ROSA'S strong box ? she asked . 
Oh no , said Vasco carelessly , that is a list of the well known people who would be involved in a very disagreeable scandal if the SUB ROSA'S papers were made public . 
I've put you at the head of it , otherwise it follows alphabetical order . 
The Duchess gazed helplessly at the string of names , which seemed for the moment to include nearly every one she knew . 
As a matter of fact , her own name at the head of the list exercised an almost paralysing effect on her thinking faculties . 
Of course you have destroyed the papers ? she asked , when she had somewhat recovered herself . 
She was conscious that she made the remark with an entire lack of conviction . 
But you should have , said Lulu angrily if , as you say , they are highly compromising Oh , they are , I assure you of that , interposed the young man . 
Then you should put them out of harm's way at once . 
Supposing anything should leak out , think of all these poor , unfortunate people who would be involved in the disclosures , and Lulu tapped the list with an agitated gesture . 
Unfortunate , perhaps , but not poor , corrected Vasco if you read the list carefully you'll notice that I haven't troubled to include anyone whose financial standing isn't above question . 
Lulu glared at her nephew for some moments in silence . 
Then she asked hoarsely What are you going to do ? Nothing for the remainder of my life , he answered meaningly . 
A little hunting , perhaps , he continued , and I shall have a villa at Florence . 
The Villa Sub Rosa would sound rather quaint and picturesque , don't you think , and quite a lot of people would be able to attach a meaning to the name . 
And I suppose I must have a hobby I shall probably collect Raeburns . 
Lulu's relative , who lived at the Court of Monaco , got quite a snappish answer when she wrote recommending some further invention in the realm of marine research . 
THE COBWEB THE farmhouse kitchen probably stood where it did as a matter of accident or haphazard choice yet its situation might have been planned by a master strategist in farmhouse architecture . 
The window nook made almost a little room in itself , quite the pleasantest room in the farm as far as situation and capabilities went . 
When we are more settled I shall work wonders in the way of making the kitchen habitable , said the young woman to her occasional visitors . 
There was an unspoken wish in those words , a wish which was unconfessed as well as unspoken . 
Emma Ladbruk was the mistress of the farm jointly with her husband she might have her say , and to a certain extent her way , in ordering its affairs . 
But she was not mistress of the kitchen . 
Martha Crale was the name written on that yellow page . 
She was so old and so much a part of the place , it was difficult to think of her exactly as a living thing . 
Old Shep , the white nozzled , stiff limbed collie , waiting for his time to die , seemed almost more human than the withered , dried up old woman . 
And what memories she must have of human generations that had passed away in her time . 
Now and again , when election time came round , she would unstore her recollections of the old names round which the fight had waged in the days gone by . 
Later there had been Northcotes and Aclands , and many other newer names that she had forgotten the names changed , but it was always Libruls and Toories , Yellows and Blues . 
And they always quarrelled and shouted as to who was right and who was wrong . 
The one they quarrelled about most was a fine old gentleman with an angry face she had seen his picture on the walls . 
She had seen it on the floor too , with a rotten apple squashed over it , for the farm had changed its politics from time to time . 
Martha had never been on one side or the other none of they had ever done the farm a stroke of good . 
Such was her sweeping verdict , given with all a peasant's distrust of the outside world . 
When the half frightened curiosity had somewhat faded away , Emma Ladbruk was uncomfortably conscious of another feeling towards the old woman . 
Decidedly Martha was in the way . 
Old Martha was not working . 
A basket of corn was on the floor by her side , and out in the yard the poultry were beginning to clamour a protest of overdue feeding time . 
But Martha sat huddled in a shrunken bunch on the window seat , looking out with her dim old eyes as though she saw something stranger than the autumn landscape . 
Is anything the matter , Martha ? asked the young woman . 
'Tis death , 'tis death a coming , answered the quavering voice I knew 'twere coming . 
'Tweren't for nothing that old Shep's been howling all morning . 
An' last night I heard the screech owl give the death cry , and there were something white as run across the yard yesterday 'tweren't a cat nor a stoat , 'twere something . 
The fowls knew 'twere something they all drew off to one side . 
Ay , there's been warnings . 
I knew it were a coming . 
The young woman's eyes clouded with pity . 
It was not probable that much could be done for her , but Emma hastened away to get assistance and counsel . 
The farm , she soon found out , had that faculty common to farmyards of swallowing up and losing its human population . 
I'm afraid old Martha is dying , said Emma . 
Jim was not the sort of person to whom one had to break news gently . 
Nonsense , he said Martha means to live to a hundred . 
She told me so , and she'll do it . 
A grin spread over his good natured features . 
It don't look like it , he said , nodding towards the yard . 
Emma turned to catch the meaning of his remark . 
Old Martha stood in the middle of a mob of poultry scattering handfuls of grain around her . 
But she threw the grain deftly amid the wilderness of beaks , and her quavering voice carried as far as the two people who were watching her . 
She was still harping on the theme of death coming to the farm . 
I knew 'twere a coming . 
There's been signs an' warnings . 
Who's dead , then , old Mother ? called out the young man . 
'Tis young Mister Ladbruk , she shrilled back they've just a carried his body in . 
Run out of the way of a tree that was coming down an' ran hisself on to an iron post . 
Dead when they picked un up . 
Aye , I knew 'twere coming . 
And she turned to fling a handful of barley at a belated group of guinea fowl that came racing toward her . 
The farm was a family property , and passed to the rabbit shooting cousin as the next of kin . 
Emma Ladbruk drifted out of its history as a bee that had wandered in at an open window might flit its way out again . 
From where she stood she could see an angle of the long latticed window that was to have been cosy with curtains and gay with bowls of flowers . 
She made her way to a narrow barred casement that opened into the farm larder . 
Old Martha was standing at a table trussing a pair of chickens for the market stall as she had trussed them for nearly fourscore years . 
THE LULL I'VE asked Latimer Springfield to spend Sunday with us and stop the night , announced Mrs. Durmot at the breakfast table . 
I thought he was in the throes of an election , remarked her husband . 
Exactly the poll is on Wednesday , and the poor man will have worked himself to a shadow by that time . 
Imagine what electioneering must be like in this awful soaking rain , going along slushy country roads and speaking to damp audiences in draughty schoolrooms , day after day for a fortnight . 
I won't let him even think of them . 
I've had the picture of Cromwell dissolving the Long Parliament taken down from the staircase , and even the portrait of Lord Rosebery's 'Ladas' removed from the smoking room . 
On state occasions I always wear a black ribbon in my hair , said Vera with crushing dignity . 
Latimer Springfield was a rather cheerless , oldish young man , who went into politics somewhat in the spirit in which other people might go into half mourning . 
The restful lull which his hostess enforced on him was decidedly welcome , and yet the nervous excitement of the contest had too great a hold on him to be totally banished . 
More than that we cannot do . 
That remains to be seen , said Vera , but she said it to herself . 
Wouldn't they be happier somewhere outside ? he asked , tactfully expressing his own preference in the matter in an apparent solicitude for theirs . 
There is no outside , said Vera impressively , nothing but a waste of dark , swirling waters . 
The reservoir at Brinkley has burst . 
I didn't know there was a reservoir at Brinkley , said Latimer . 
Well , there isn't now , it's jolly well all over the place , and as we stand particularly low we're the centre of an inland sea just at present . 
You see the river has overflowed its banks as well . 
Good gracious ! Have any lives been lost ? Heaps , I should say . 
The second housemaid has already identified three bodies that have floated past the billiard room window as being the young man she's engaged to . 
Either she's engaged to a large assortment of the population round here or else she's very careless at identification . 
Of course it may be the same body coming round again and again in a swirl I hadn't thought of that . 
But we ought to go out and do rescue work , oughtn't we ? said Latimer , with the instinct of a Parliamentary candidate for getting into the local limelight . 
We can't , said Vera decidedly , we haven't any boats and we're cut off by a raging torrent from any human habitation . 
You see , there are eight other gamecocks , and they fight like furies if they get together , so we're putting one in each bedroom . 
The fowl houses are all flooded out , you know . 
And then I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind taking in this wee piggie he's rather a little love , but he has a vile temper . 
He gets that from his mother not that I like to say things against her when she's lying dead and drowned in her stye , poor thing . 
What he really wants is a man's firm hand to keep him in order . 
I'd try and grapple with him myself , only I've got my chow in my room , you know , and he goes for pigs wherever he finds them . 
Couldn't the pig go in the bathroom ? asked Latimer faintly , wishing that he had taken up as determined a stand on the subject of bedroom swine as the chow had . 
The bathroom ? Vera laughed shrilly . 
It'll be full of Boy Scouts till morning if the hot water holds out . 
Boy Scouts ? Yes , thirty of them came to rescue us while the water was only waist high then it rose another three feet or so and we had to rescue them . 
Two of the boys are wearing your Melton overcoat I hope you don't mind . 
It's a new overcoat , said Latimer , with every indication of minding dreadfully . 
You'll take every care of Hartlepool's Wonder , won't you ? said Vera . 
His mother took three firsts at Birmingham , and he was second in the cockerel class last year at Gloucester . 
He'll probably roost on the rail at the bottom of your bed . 
Latimer undressed and got into bed with all due speed , judging that the pig would abate its inquisitorial restlessness once the light was turned out . 
The gamecock , who may have fancied that he was being rocked in the branches of a pine tree , bore the motion with greater fortitude than Latimer was able to command . 
Latimer slipped out of bed in search of a weapon of dissuasion . 
There was sufficient light in the room to enable the pig to detect this manoeuvre , and the vile temper , inherited from the drowned mother , found full play . 
Latimer bounded back into bed , and his conqueror , after a few threatening snorts and champings of its jaws , resumed its massage operations with renewed zeal . 
The role of Saint Martin malgre lui was not one which appealed to him . 
Neither side could claim any decisive success , and the struggle had been practically fought to a standstill by the time that the maid appeared with the early morning tea . 
If Miss Vera's dog sees that pig ! exclaimed the maid , and hurried off to avert such a catastrophe . 
A cold suspicion was stealing over Latimer's mind he went to the window and drew up the blind . 
A light , drizzling rain was falling , but there was not the faintest trace of any inundation . 
Some half hour later he met Vera on the way to the breakfast room . 
I should not like to think of you as a deliberate liar , he observed coldly , but one occasionally has to do things one does not like . 
At any rate I kept your mind from dwelling on politics all the night , said Vera . 
Which was , of course , perfectly true . 
THE UNKINDEST BLOW THE season of strikes seemed to have run itself to a standstill . 
Almost every trade and industry and calling in which a dislocation could possibly be engineered had indulged in that luxury . 
In this case the threat of the Zoological Gardens authorities that if the men came out the animals should come out also had intensified and precipitated the crisis . 
A strong force of Bluejackets was despatched to Regent's Park to take over the temporarily abandoned duties of the strikers . 
By elections are not very desirable at present , but we must not be selfish . 
As a matter of fact the strike collapsed peacefully without any outside intervention . 
The majority of the keepers had become so attached to their charges that they returned to work of their own accord . 
And then the nation and the newspapers turned with a sense of relief to happier things . 
It seemed as if a new era of contentment was about to dawn . 
Everybody had struck who could possibly want to strike or who could possibly be cajoled or bullied into striking , whether they wanted to or not . 
The lighter and brighter side of life might now claim some attention . 
And conspicuous among the other topics that sprang into sudden prominence was the pending Falvertoon divorce suit . 
The Duke of Falvertoon was one of those human HORS D'OEUVRES that stimulate the public appetite for sensation without giving it much to feed on . 
In later days his brilliancy had been less conspicuously displayed . 
It began to be generally understood that he did not intend to supplement his numerous town and country residences by living overmuch in the public eye . 
And then had come the unlooked for tidings of the imminent proceedings for divorce . 
Hotel accommodation of the more expensive sort began to experience a strain on its resources . 
It will be quite like the Durbar without the elephants , exclaimed an enthusiastic lady who , to do her justice , had never seen a Durbar . 
The general feeling was one of thankfulness that the last of the strikes had been got over before the date fixed for the hearing of the great suit . 
Thumb nail artists and expert kodak manipulators were retained at extravagant salaries , and special dress reporters were in high demand . 
As far as human foresight and human enterprise could go nothing was lacking to make the trial a success . 
I suppose so if it comes off , said the Duke lazily . 
If ? queried the reporter , in a voice that was something between a gasp and a scream . 
The Duchess and I are both thinking of going on strike , said the Duke . 
Strike ! The baleful word flashed out in all its old hideous familiarity . 
Hence our decision to strike . 
The news of this latest strike spread universal dismay . 
Its inaccessibility to the ordinary methods of persuasion made it peculiarly formidable . 
If the Duke and Duchess persisted in being reconciled the Government could hardly be called on to interfere . 
Public opinion in the shape of social ostracism might be brought to bear on them , but that was as far as coercive measures could go . 
There was nothing for it but a conference , with powers to propose liberal terms . 
As it was , several of the foreign witnesses had already departed and others had telegraphed cancelling their hotel arrangements . 
The conference , protracted , uncomfortable , and occasionally acrimonious , succeeded at last in arranging for a resumption of litigation , but it was a fruitless victory . 
The Duke , with a touch of his earlier precocity , died of premature decay a fortnight before the date fixed for the new trial . 
Inevitably the figure came to an anchorage on the bench , within easy talking distance of its original occupant . 
It's a strange world , he said . 
As the statement met with no response he altered it to the form of a question . 
Ah , said the greybeard , I could tell you things that you'd hardly believe . 
Marvellous things that have really happened to me . 
Nowadays there is no demand for marvellous things that have really happened , said Crosby discouragingly the professional writers of fiction turn these things out so much better . 
For instance , my neighbours tell me wonderful , incredible things that their Aberdeens and chows and borzois have done I never listen to them . 
On the other hand , I have read 'The Hound of the Baskervilles' three times . 
The greybeard moved uneasily in his seat then he opened up new country . 
I take it that you are a professing Christian , he observed . 
I am a prominent and I think I may say an influential member of the Mussulman community of Eastern Persia , said Crosby , making an excursion himself into the realms of fiction . 
The greybeard was obviously disconcerted at this new check to introductory conversation , but the defeat was only momentary . 
I should never have taken you for a Persian , he remarked , with a somewhat aggrieved air . 
I am not , said Crosby my father was an Afghan . 
An Afghan ! said the other , smitten into bewildered silence for a moment . 
Then he recovered himself and renewed his attack . 
Ah ! We've had some wars with that country now , I daresay , instead of fighting it we might have learned something from it . 
A very wealthy country , I believe . 
He raised his voice on the word poverty with a suggestion of intense feeling . 
Crosby saw the opening and avoided it . 
Also I have forgotten exactly how it ended . 
My own life story is a curious one , said the stranger , apparently stifling all desire to hear the history of Ibrahim I was not always as you see me now . 
We are supposed to undergo complete change in the course of every seven years , said Crosby , as an explanation of the foregoing announcement . 
I mean I was not always in such distressing circumstances as I am at present , pursued the stranger doggedly . 
That sounds rather rude , said Crosby stiffly , considering that you are at present talking to a man reputed to be one of the most gifted conversationalists of the Afghan border . 
I don't mean in that way , said the greybeard hastily I've been very much interested in your conversation . 
I was alluding to my unfortunate financial situation . 
You mayn't hardly believe it , but at the present moment I am absolutely without a farthing . 
Don't see any prospect of getting any money , either , for the next few days . 
I don't suppose you've ever found yourself in such a position , he added . 
I forget what the other two were . 
Ah , I daresay , said the stranger , in a tone that betrayed no enthusiasm for the philosopher's memory and did he practise what he preached ? That's the test . 
He lived happily with very little money or resources , said Crosby . 
Then I expect he had friends who would help him liberally whenever he was in difficulties , such as I am in at present . 
In Yom , said Crosby , it is not necessary to have friends in order to obtain help . 
Any citizen of Yom would help a stranger as a matter of course . 
The greybeard was now genuinely interested . 
The conversation had at last taken a favourable turn . 
It is a roundabout way of performing a simple transaction , but in the East all ways are roundabout . 
The listener's eyes were glittering . 
Ah , he exclaimed , with a thin sneer ringing meaningly through his words , I suppose you've given up all those generous customs since you left your town . 
Don't practise them now , I expect . 
To me they are as binding as though I still lived in that hallowed home of my youth . 
We will therefore close this discussion . 
I don't believe a word of his story , he chattered to himself pack of nasty lies from beginning to end . 
Wish I'd told him so to his face . 
Lady Carlotta promptly betook her to the roadway , and put rather a different complexion on the struggle . 
Certain of her acquaintances were wont to give her plentiful admonition as to the undesirability of interfering on behalf of a distressed animal , such interference being none of her business . 
It is to be feared that she lost the friendship of the ultimately rescued lady . 
On this occasion she merely lost the train , which gave way to the first sign of impatience it had shown throughout the journey , and steamed off without her . 
She bore the desertion with philosophical indifference her friends and relations were thoroughly well used to the fact of her luggage arriving without her . 
She wired a vague non committal message to her destination to say that she was coming on by another train . 
You must be Miss Hope , the governess I've come to meet , said the apparition , in a tone that admitted of very little argument . 
Very well , if I must I must , said Lady Carlotta to herself with dangerous meekness . 
I've just telegraphed about it , she added , with a nearer approach to truth . 
How provoking , said Mrs. Quabarl these railway companies are so careless . 
However , my maid can lend you things for the night , and she led the way to her car . 
I wish them not only to be TAUGHT , said Mrs. Quabarl , but INTERESTED in what they learn . 
French , of course , I shall expect you to talk at meal times several days in the week . 
I shall talk French four days of the week and Russian in the remaining three . 
Russian ? My dear Miss Hope , no one in the house speaks or understands Russian . 
That will not embarrass me in the least , said Lady Carlotta coldly . 
Mrs. Quabarl , to use a colloquial expression , was knocked off her perch . 
She was one of those imperfectly self assured individuals who are magnificent and autocratic as long as they are not seriously opposed . 
The least show of unexpected resistance goes a long way towards rendering them cowed and apologetic . 
Her feelings were those which might have animated a general of ancient warfaring days , on beholding his heaviest battle elephant ignominiously driven off the field by slingers and javelin throwers . 
At dinner that evening , although reinforced by her husband , who usually duplicated her opinions and lent her moral support generally , Mrs. Quabarl regained none of her lost ground . 
Previous governesses had limited their conversation on the wine topic to a respectful and doubtless sincere expression of a preference for water . 
We got very satisfactory references about you from Canon Teep , she observed a very estimable man , I should think . 
Drinks like a fish and beats his wife , otherwise a very lovable character , said the governess imperturbably . 
MY DEAR Miss Hope ! I trust you are exaggerating , exclaimed the Quabarls in unison . 
One must in justice admit that there is some provocation , continued the romancer . 
You may think me hasty in my judgments , but it was practically on account of the syphon incident that I left . 
We will talk of this some other time , said Mrs. Quabarl hastily . 
I shall never allude to it again , said the governess with decision . 
Mr. Quabarl made a welcome diversion by asking what studies the new instructress proposed to inaugurate on the morrow . 
History to begin with , she informed him . 
Ah , history , he observed sagely now in teaching them history you must take care to interest them in what they learn . 
You must make them feel that they are being introduced to the life stories of men and women who really lived I've told her all that , interposed Mrs. Quabarl . 
I teach history on the Schartz Metterklume method , said the governess loftily . 
Ah , yes , said her listeners , thinking it expedient to assume an acquaintance at least with the name . 
We are having a history lesson , came the unexpected reply . 
Claude and Wilfrid have gone to fetch the shabby women . 
The shabby women ? Yes , they've got to carry them off . 
They didn't want to , but Miss Hope got one of father's fives bats and said she'd give them a number nine spanking if they didn't , so they've gone to do it . 
A loud , angry screaming from the direction of the lawn drew Mrs. Quabarl thither in hot haste , fearful lest the threatened castigation might even now be in process of infliction . 
The governess , fives bat in hand , sat negligently on the stone balustrade , presiding over the scene with the cold impartiality of a Goddess of Battles . 
Mrs. Quabarl flew indignantly to the rescue of the struggling captives . 
Wilfrid ! Claude ! Let those children go at once . 
Of course , if , thanks to your interference , your boys go through life thinking that the Sabine women ultimately escaped , I really cannot be held responsible . 
You may be very clever and modern , Miss Hope , said Mrs. Quabarl firmly , but I should like you to leave here by the next train . 
Your luggage will be sent after you as soon as it arrives . 
I'm not certain exactly where I shall be for the next few days , said the dismissed instructress of youth you might keep my luggage till I wire my address . 
There are only a couple of trunks and some golf clubs and a leopard cub . 
A leopard cub ! gasped Mrs. Quabarl . 
Even in her departure this extraordinary person seemed destined to leave a trail of embarrassment behind her . 
Well , it's rather left off being a cub it's more than half grown , you know . 
A fowl every day and a rabbit on Sundays is what it usually gets . 
Raw beef makes it too excitable . 
Don't trouble about getting the car for me , I'm rather inclined for a walk . 
And Lady Carlotta strode out of the Quabarl horizon . 
Obviously the Quabarl family had been woefully befooled , but a certain amount of relief came with the knowledge . 
How tiresome for you , dear Carlotta , said her hostess , when the overdue guest ultimately arrived how very tiresome losing your train and having to stop overnight in a strange place . 
Oh dear , no , said Lady Carlotta not at all tiresome for me . 
THE SEVENTH PULLET IT'S not the daily grind that I complain of , said Blenkinthrope resentfully it's the dull grey sameness of my life outside of office hours . 
Nothing of interest comes my way , nothing remarkable or out of the common . 
Even the little things that I do try to find some interest in don't seem to interest other people . 
Things in my garden , for instance . 
The potato that weighed just over two pounds , said his friend Gorworth . 
Did I tell you about that ? said Blenkinthrope I was telling the others in the train this morning . 
I forgot if I'd told you . 
You're just like the others , said Blenkinthrope sadly , you only make fun of it . 
The fault is with the potato , not with us , said Gorworth we are not in the least interested in it because it is not in the least interesting . 
Tell them something startling , dramatic , piquant that has happened to yourself or to someone in your family , and you will capture their interest at once . 
They will talk about you with a certain personal pride to all their acquaintances . 
'Man I know intimately , fellow called Blenkinthrope , lives down my way , had two of his fingers clawed clean off by a lobster he was carrying home to supper . 
Doctor says entire hand may have to come off . 
Now that is conversation of a very high order . 
But imagine walking into a tennis club with the remark 'I know a man who has grown a potato weighing two and a quarter pounds . 
Since winning a prize for excellence in Scriptural knowledge at a preparatory school he had felt licensed to be a little more unscrupulous than the circle he moved in . 
Much might surely be excused to one who in early life could give a list of seventeen trees mentioned in the Old Testament . 
What sort of thing ? asked Blenkinthrope , somewhat snappishly . 
A snake got into your hen run yesterday morning and killed six out of seven pullets , first mesmerising them with its eyes and then biting them as they stood helpless . 
Thank you , said Blenkinthrope stiffly it's a very clever invention . 
If such a thing had really happened in my poultry run I admit I should have been proud and interested to tell people about it . 
But I'd rather stick to fact , even if it is plain fact . 
All the same his mind dwelt wistfully on the story of the Seventh Pullet . 
He could picture himself telling it in the train amid the absorbed interest of his fellow passengers . 
Unconsciously all sorts of little details and improvements began to suggest themselves . 
Wistfulness was still his dominant mood when he took his seat in the railway carriage the next morning . 
Opposite him sat Stevenham , who had attained to a recognised brevet of importance through the fact of an uncle having dropped dead in the act of voting at a Parliamentary election . 
That had happened three years ago , but Stevenham was still deferred to on all questions of home and foreign politics . 
Hullo , how's the giant mushroom , or whatever it was ? was all the notice Blenkinthrope got from his fellow travellers . 
Young Duckby , whom he mildly disliked , speedily monopolised the general attention by an account of a domestic bereavement . 
Had four young pigeons carried off last night by a whacking big rat . 
Oh , a monster he must have been you could tell by the size of the hole he made breaking into the loft . 
No moderate sized rat ever seemed to carry out any predatory operations in these regions they were all enormous in their enormity . 
Pretty hard lines that , continued Duckby , seeing that he had secured the attention and respect of the company four squeakers carried off at one swoop . 
You'd find it rather hard to match that in the way of unlooked for bad luck . 
I had six pullets out of a pen of seven killed by a snake yesterday afternoon , said Blenkinthrope , in a voice which he hardly recognised as his own . 
By a snake ? came in excited chorus . 
It fascinated them with its deadly , glittering eyes , one after the other , and struck them down while they stood helpless . 
A bedridden neighbour , who wasn't able to call for assistance , witnessed it all from her bedroom window . 
Well , I never ! broke in the chorus , with variations . 
The interesting part of it is about the seventh pullet , the one that didn't get killed , resumed Blenkinthrope , slowly lighting a cigarette . 
His diffidence had left him , and he was beginning to realise how safe and easy depravity can seem once one has the courage to begin . 
The six dead birds were Minorcas the seventh was a Houdan with a mop of feathers all over its eyes . 
It could hardly see the snake at all , so of course it wasn't mesmerised like the others . 
It just could see something wriggling on the ground , and went for it and pecked it to death . 
Well , I'm blessed ! exclaimed the chorus . 
In the course of the next few days Blenkinthrope discovered how little the loss of one's self respect affects one when one has gained the esteem of the world . 
His story found its way into one of the poultry papers , and was copied thence into a daily news sheet as a matter of general interest . 
A lady wrote from the North of Scotland recounting a similar episode which she had witnessed as occurring between a stoat and a blind grouse . 
Somehow a lie seems so much less reprehensible when one can call it a lee . 
With this new human interest to absorb them the travelling companions were almost rude when Blenkinthrope tried to explain his contrivance for keeping vipers and peregrine falcons out of his chicken run . 
Gorworth , to whom he unburdened himself in private , gave him the same counsel as heretofore . 
Yes , but what ? The ready affirmative coupled with the question betrayed a significant shifting of the ethical standpoint . 
It was a few days later that Blenkinthrope revealed a chapter of family history to the customary gathering in the railway carriage . 
Curious thing happened to my aunt , the one who lives in Paris , he began . 
He had several aunts , but they were all geographically distributed over Greater London . 
She was sitting on a seat in the Bois the other afternoon , after lunching at the Roumanian Legation . 
Whatever the story gained in picturesqueness from the dragging in of diplomatic atmosphere , it ceased from that moment to command any acceptance as a record of current events . 
Gorworth had warned his neophyte that this would be the case , but the traditional enthusiasm of the neophyte had triumphed over discretion . 
She was feeling rather drowsy , the effect probably of the champagne , which she's not in the habit of taking in the middle of the day . 
A subdued murmur of admiration went round the company . 
Blenkinthrope's aunts were not used to taking champagne in the middle of the year , regarding it exclusively as a Christmas and New Year accessory . 
Presently a rather portly gentleman passed by her seat and paused an instant to light a cigar . 
At that moment a youngish man came up behind him , drew the blade from a swordstick , and stabbed him half a dozen times through and through . 
'Scoundrel , he cried to his victim , 'you do not know me . 
My name is Henri Leturc . 
Of course I need hardly say she put the whole thing down to the effects of a warm , drowsy afternoon and the Legation champagne . 
Now comes the astonishing part of my story . 
A fortnight later a bank manager was stabbed to death with a swordstick in that very part of the Bois . 
His assassin was the son of a charwoman formerly working at the bank , who had been dismissed from her job by the manager on account of chronic intemperance . 
His name was Henri Leturc . 
From that moment Blenkinthrope was tacitly accepted as the Munchausen of the party . 
And then one day came Nemesis . 
Returning to his villa one evening Blenkinthrope found his wife sitting in front of a pack of cards , which she was scrutinising with unusual concentration . 
The same old patience game ? he asked carelessly . 
No , dear this is the Death's Head patience , the most difficult of them all . 
I've never got it to work out , and somehow I should be rather frightened if I did . 
Mother only got it out once in her life she was afraid of it , too . 
Her great aunt had done it once and fallen dead from excitement the next moment , and mother always had a feeling that she would die if she ever got it out . 
She died the same night that she did it . 
She was in bad health at the time , certainly , but it was a strange coincidence . 
Don't do it if it frightens you , was Blenkinthrope's practical comment as he left the room . 
A few minutes later his wife called to him . 
John , it gave me such a turn , I nearly got it out . 
Only the five of diamonds held me up at the end . 
I really thought I'd done it . 
His wife made the suggested move with hasty , trembling fingers , and piled the outstanding cards on to their respective packs . 
Then she followed the example of her mother and great grand aunt . 
Blenkinthrope had been genuinely fond of his wife , but in the midst of his bereavement one dominant thought obtruded itself . 
Something sensational and real had at last come into his life no longer was it a grey , colourless record . 
The headlines which might appropriately describe his domestic tragedy kept shaping themselves in his brain . 
The Death's Head patience Card game that justified its sinister name in three generations . 
But in both cases his reputation as a romancer stood fatally in the way of the fulfilment of his ambitions . 
Blenkinthrope shrank from the society of his erstwhile travelling companions and took to travelling townwards by an earlier train . 
You'll do nothing of the sort . 
It wouldn't be respectful either to your great aunt's memory or to the lunch . 
Now there's absolutely nothing in that menu that harmonises in the least with the subject of your great aunt Adelaide or her funeral . 
She was a charming woman , and quite as intelligent as she had any need to be , but somehow she always reminded me of an English cook's idea of a Madras curry . 
She used to say you were frivolous , said Egbert . 
Something in his tone suggested that he rather endorsed the verdict . 
I believe I once considerably scandalised her by declaring that clear soup was a more important factor in life than a clear conscience . 
She had very little sense of proportion . 
By the way , she made you her principal heir , didn't she ? Yes , said Egbert , and executor as well . 
It's in that connection that I particularly want to speak to you . 
Business is not my strong point at any time , said Sir Lulworth , and certainly not when we're on the immediate threshold of lunch . 
It isn't exactly business , explained Egbert , as he followed his uncle into the dining room . 
Then we can't possibly speak about it now , said Sir Lulworth no one could talk seriously during a borshch . 
A beautifully constructed borshch , such as you are going to experience presently , ought not only to banish conversation but almost to annihilate thought . 
But I absolutely decline to talk anything approaching business till we have finished with the bird . 
For the greater part of the meal Egbert sat in an abstracted silence , the silence of a man whose mind is focussed on one topic . 
When the coffee stage had been reached he launched himself suddenly athwart his uncle's reminiscences of the Court of Luxemburg . 
I think I told you that great aunt Adelaide had made me her executor . 
There wasn't very much to be done in the way of legal matters , but I had to go through her papers . 
That would be a fairly heavy task in itself . 
I should imagine there were reams of family letters . 
Stacks of them , and most of them highly uninteresting . 
There was one packet , however , which I thought might repay a careful perusal . 
It was a bundle of correspondence from her brother Peter . 
The Canon of tragic memory , said Lulworth . 
Exactly , of tragic memory , as you say a tragedy that has never been fathomed . 
Probably the simplest explanation was the correct one , said Sir Lulworth he slipped on the stone staircase and fractured his skull in falling . 
The medical evidence all went to prove that the blow on the head was struck by some one coming up behind him . 
A wound caused by violent contact with the steps could not possibly have been inflicted at that angle of the skull . 
They experimented with a dummy figure falling in every conceivable position . 
Of course there are individuals of weak mental balance who do that sort of thing , but they seldom conceal their handiwork they are more generally inclined to parade it . 
His cook was under suspicion , said Egbert shortly . 
I know he was , said Sir Lulworth , simply because he was about the only person on the premises at the time of the tragedy . 
The Canon was paying him quite as good wages as I was able to offer him when I took him over into my service . 
People were fighting rather shy of him , and he had no friends in this country . 
No if anyone in the world was interested in the prolonged life and unimpaired digestion of the Canon it would certainly be Sebastien . 
People don't always weigh the consequences of their rash acts , said Egbert , otherwise there would be very few murders committed . 
Sebastien is a man of hot temper . 
He is a southerner , admitted Sir Lulworth to be geographically exact I believe he hails from the French slopes of the Pyrenees . 
I took that into consideration when he nearly killed the gardener's boy the other day for bringing him a spurious substitute for sorrel . 
One must always make allowances for origin and locality and early environment Tell me your longitude and I'll know what latitude to allow you , is my motto . 
There , you see , said Egbert , he nearly killed the gardener's boy . 
My dear Egbert , between nearly killing a gardener's boy and altogether killing a Canon there is a wide difference . 
No doubt you have often felt a temporary desire to kill a gardener's boy you have never given way to it , and I respect you for your self control . 
But I don't suppose you have ever wanted to kill an octogenarian Canon . 
Besides , as far as we know , there had never been any quarrel or disagreement between the two men . 
The evidence at the inquest brought that out very clearly . 
Ah ! said Egbert , with the air of a man coming at last into a deferred inheritance of conversational importance , that is precisely what I want to speak to you about . 
He pushed away his coffee cup and drew a pocket book from his inner breast pocket . 
From the depths of the pocket book he produced an envelope , and from the envelope he extracted a letter , closely written in a small , neat handwriting . 
One of the Canon's numerous letters to Aunt Adelaide , he explained , written a few days before his death . 
If it had been produced at the inquest I fancy it would have made some difference in the course of affairs . 
Oh , read the letter , said Sir Lulworth impatiently . 
It's a long rambling affair , like most of his letters in his later years , said Egbert . 
I'll read the part that bears immediately on the mystery . 
'I very much fear I shall have to get rid of Sebastien . 
He cooks divinely , but he has the temper of a fiend or an anthropoid ape , and I am really in bodily fear of him . 
Very little of the coffee went actually in his face , but I have never seen a human being show such deplorable lack of self control . 
It was on the steps in the Italian Garden that the body was found , commented Egbert , and resumed reading . 
'I daresay the danger is imaginary but I shall feel more at ease when he has quitted my service . 
Have you shown it to anyone else ? asked Sir Lulworth , reaching out his hand for the incriminating piece of paper . 
No , said Egbert , handing it across the table , I thought I would tell you about it first . 
Heavens , what are you doing ? Egbert's voice rose almost to a scream . 
Sir Lulworth had flung the paper well and truly into the glowing centre of the grate . 
The small , neat hand writing shrivelled into black flaky nothingness . 
What on earth did you do that for ? gasped Egbert . 
That letter was our one piece of evidence to connect Sebastien with the crime . 
That is why I destroyed it , said Sir Lulworth . 
But why should you want to shield him ? cried Egbert the man is a common murderer . 
A common murderer , possibly , but a very uncommon cook . 
Hyde Park Corner , with its rattle and hoot of traffic , lay immediately to his right . 
It was some thirty minutes past six on an early March evening , and dusk had fallen heavily over the scene , dusk mitigated by some faint moonlight and many street lamps . 
The scene pleased Gortsby and harmonised with his present mood . 
Dusk , to his mind , was the hour of the defeated . 
A king that is conquered must see strange looks , So bitter a thing is the heart of man . 
Beyond the sheltering screen of bushes and palings came a realm of brilliant lights and noisy , rushing traffic . 
So Gortsby's imagination pictured things as he sat on his bench in the almost deserted walk . 
He was in the mood to count himself among the defeated . 
He belonged unmistakably to that forlorn orchestra to whose piping no one dances he was one of the world's lamenters who induce no responsive weeping . 
As if to emphasise the fact that the world went badly with him the new corner unburdened himself of an angry and very audible expletive as he flung himself into the seat . 
You don't seem in a very good temper , said Gortsby , judging that he was expected to take due notice of the demonstration . 
The young man turned to him with a look of disarming frankness which put him instantly on his guard . 
You wouldn't be in a good temper if you were in the fix I'm in , he said I've done the silliest thing I've ever done in my life . 
Yes ? said Gortsby dispassionately . 
The taxi driver recommended me to another hotel some way off and I went there . 
There was an eloquent pause after the story had been told . 
I suppose you think I've spun you rather an impossible yarn , said the young man presently , with a suggestion of resentment in his voice . 
Luckily we remembered that the hotel was on a sort of canal , and when we struck the canal we were able to find our way back to the hotel . 
The youth brightened at the reminiscence . 
In a foreign city I wouldn't mind so much , he said one could go to one's Consul and get the requisite help from him . 
Here in one's own land one is far more derelict if one gets into a fix . 
Unless I can find some decent chap to swallow my story and lend me some money I seem likely to spend the night on the Embankment . 
I'm glad , anyhow , that you don't think the story outrageously improbable . 
He threw a good deal of warmth into the last remark , as though perhaps to indicate his hope that Gortsby did not fall far short of the requisite decency . 
Of course , said Gortsby slowly , the weak point of your story is that you can't produce the soap . 
The young man sat forward hurriedly , felt rapidly in the pockets of his overcoat , and then jumped to his feet . 
I must have lost it , he muttered angrily . 
To lose an hotel and a cake of soap on one afternoon suggests wilful carelessness , said Gortsby , but the young man scarcely waited to hear the end of the remark . 
He flitted away down the path , his head held high , with an air of somewhat jaded jauntiness . 
In his particular line genius certainly consists of an infinite capacity for taking precautions . 
With that reflection Gortsby rose to go as he did so an exclamation of concern escaped him . 
Lying on the ground by the side of the bench was a small oval packet , wrapped and sealed with the solicitude of a chemist's counter . 
It could be nothing else but a cake of soap , and it had evidently fallen out of the youth's overcoat pocket when he flung himself down on the seat . 
In another moment Gortsby was scudding along the dusk shrouded path in anxious quest for a youthful figure in a light overcoat . 
He turned round sharply with an air of defensive hostility when he found Gortsby hailing him . 
I saw it on the ground after you left . 
If the loan of a sovereign is any good to you The young man hastily removed all doubt on the subject by pocketing the coin . 
Poor boy , he as nearly as possible broke down , said Gortsby to himself . 
I don't wonder either the relief from his quandary must have been acute . 
It's a lesson to me not to be too clever in judging by circumstances . 
Have you lost anything , sir ? he asked . 
Yes , sir , a cake of soap . 
I want to have something really original this year . 
I was staying with the Mathesons last month , said Blanche Boveal eagerly , and we had such a good idea . 
The one who was voted to have acted his or her character best got a prize . 
It sounds amusing , said Lady Blonze . 
Francis of Assisi , continued Blanche we hadn't got to keep to our right sexes . 
I kept getting up in the middle of a meal , and throwing out food to the birds you see , the chief thing that one remembers of St . 
Francis is that he was fond of the birds . 
Every one was so stupid about it , and thought that I was the old man who feeds the sparrows in the Tuileries Gardens . 
Then Colonel Pentley was the Jolly Miller on the banks of Dee . 
How on earth did he do that ? asked Bertie van Tahn . 
'He laughed and sang from morn till night , explained Blanche . 
How dreadful for the rest of you , said Bertie and anyway he wasn't on the banks of Dee . 
One had to imagine that , said Blanche . 
If you could imagine all that you might as well imagine cattle on the further bank and keep on calling them home , Mary fashion , across the sands of Dee . 
Or you might change the river to the Yarrow and imagine it was on the top of you , and say you were Willie , or whoever it was , drowned in Yarrow . 
Of course it's easy to make fun of it , said Blanche sharply , but it was extremely interesting and amusing . 
The prize was rather a fiasco , though . 
Otherwise I ought to have got the prize . 
It's quite an idea for a Christmas party , said Lady Blonze we must certainly do it here . 
Sir Nicholas was not so enthusiastic . 
Are you quite sure , my dear , that you're wise in doing this thing ? he said to his wife when they were alone together . 
It might do very well at the Mathesons , where they had rather a staid , elderly house party , but here it will be a different matter . 
There is the Durmot flapper , for instance , who simply stops at nothing , and you know what Van Tahn is like . 
Then there is Cyril Skatterly he has madness on one side of his family and a Hungarian grandmother on the other . 
I don't see what they could do that would matter , said Lady Blonze . 
It's the unknown that is to be dreaded , said Sir Nicholas . 
If Skatterly took it into his head to represent a Bull of Bashan , well , I'd rather not be here . 
Of course we shan't allow any Bible characters . 
Besides , I don't know what the Bulls of Bashan really did that was so very dreadful they just came round and gaped , as far as I remember . 
Oh , you're an alarmist , said Lady Blonze I particularly want to have this idea carried out . 
It will be sure to be talked about a lot . 
That is quite possible , said Sir Nicholas . 
The close time for impersonation efforts came to an end with the final withdrawal of Moritz and Augusta from the piano . 
Blanche Boveal retired early , leaving the room in a series of laboured leaps that she hoped might be recognised as a tolerable imitation of Pavlova . 
Another guest to set an example of early bed going was Waldo Plubley , who conducted his life on a minutely regulated system of time tables and hygienic routine . 
Looking for sheep , was the reply . 
You don't suppose I'm looking for giraffes , do you ? I don't see why you should expect to find either in my room , retorted Waldo furiously . 
I can't argue the matter at this hour of the night , said Bertie , and began hastily rummaging in the chest of drawers . 
Shirts and underwear went flying on to the floor . 
There are no sheep here , I tell you , screamed Waldo . 
I've only got your word for it , said Bertie , whisking most of the bedclothes on to the floor if you weren't concealing something you wouldn't be so agitated . 
Waldo was by this time convinced that Van Tahn was raving mad , and made an anxious , effort to humour him . 
Go back to bed like a dear fellow , he pleaded , and your sheep will turn up all right in the morning . 
I daresay , said Bertie gloomily , without their tails . 
Nice fool I shall look with a lot of Manx sheep . 
And by way of emphasising his annoyance at the prospect he sent Waldo's pillows flying to the top of the wardrobe . 
But WHY no tails ? asked Waldo , whose teeth were chattering with fear and rage and lowered temperature . 
My dear boy , have you never heard the ballad of Little Bo Peep ? said Bertie with a chuckle . 
It's my character in the Game , you know . 
On the other hand he was able to devote some wakeful hours to exercises in breathing wrath and fury against Bertie van Tahn . 
Breakfast at Blonzecourt was a scattered meal , on the come when you please principle , but the house party was supposed to gather in full strength at lunch . 
On the day after the Game had been started there were , however , some notable absentees . 
Waldo Plubley , for instance , was reported to be nursing a headache . 
A large breakfast and an A. B. C. had been taken up to his room , but he had made no appearance in the flesh . 
I expect he's playing up to some character , said Vera Durmot isn't there a thing of Moliere's , 'LE MALADE IMAGINAIRE' ? I expect he's that . 
Eight or nine lists came out , and were duly pencilled with the suggestion . 
And where are the Klammersteins ? asked Lady Blonze they're usually so punctual . 
Another character pose , perhaps , said Bertie van Tahn 'the Lost Ten Tribes . 
But there are only three of them . 
Besides , they'll want their lunch . 
Hasn't anyone seen anything of them ? Didn't you take them out in your car ? asked Blanche Boveal , addressing herself to Cyril Skatterly . 
Yes , took them out to Slogberry Moor immediately after breakfast . 
I saw you and Vera come back , said Lady Blonze , but I didn't see the Klammersteins . 
Did you put them down in the village ? No , said Skatterly shortly . 
But where are they ? Where did you leave them ? We left them on Slogberry Moor , said Vera calmly . 
But how dare you do such a thing ? It's most inhuman ! Why , it's been snowing for the last hour . 
I expect there'll be a cottage or farmhouse somewhere if they walk a mile or two . 
But why on earth have you done it ? The question came in a chorus of indignant bewilderment . 
THAT would be telling what our characters are meant to be , said Vera . 
Didn't I warn you ? said Sir Nicholas tragically to his wife . 
I've got it ! Ferdinand and Isabella deporting the Jews ! Oh , lovely ! Those two have certainly won the prize we shan't get anything to beat that for thoroughness . 
Lady Blonze's Christmas party was talked about and written about to an extent that she had not anticipated in her most ambitious moments . 
The letters from Waldo's mother would alone have made it memorable . 
COUSIN TERESA BASSET HARROWCLUFF returned to the home of his fathers , after an absence of four years , distinctly well pleased with himself . 
He was only thirty one , but he had put in some useful service in an out of the way , though not unimportant , corner of the world . 
In Whitehall and places where they think , they doubtless thought well of him . 
It was not inconceivable , his father allowed himself to imagine , that Basset's name might figure in the next list of Honours . 
It was the contempt of the man of action for the man of activities , and it was probably reciprocated . 
His hair and forehead furnished a recessional note in a personality that was in all other respects obtrusive and assertive . 
There was certainly no Semitic blood in Lucas's parentage , but his appearance contrived to convey at least a suggestion of Jewish extraction . 
Clovis Sangrail , who knew most of his associates by sight , said it was undoubtedly a case of protective mimicry . 
I've got hold of an idea for something immense , he babbled , something that is simply It . 
Basset gave a short laugh that would have done equally well as a snort , if one had wanted to make the exchange . 
His half brother was in the habit of discovering futilities that were simply It at frequently recurring intervals . 
The great idea was generally forgotten a few weeks later in the excitement of some new discovery . 
The inspiration came to me whilst I was dressing , announced Lucas it will be THE thing in the next music hall REVUE . 
All London will go mad over it . 
It's just a couplet of course there will be other words , but they won't matter . 
Listen Cousin Teresa takes out Caesar , Fido , Jock , and the big borzoi . 
A lifting , catchy sort of refrain , you see , and big drum business on the two syllables of bor zoi . 
There'll be a lot of applause there , and for the fourth verse Cousin Teresa will come on in sables and the dogs will all have coats on . 
Tum Tum ! Drum business on the two last syllables . 
I'm so excited , I shan't sleep a wink to night . 
I'm off to morrow by the ten fifteen . 
I've wired to Hermanova to lunch with me . 
If any of the rest of the family felt any excitement over the creation of Cousin Teresa , they were signally successful in concealing the fact . 
Poor Lucas does take his silly little ideas seriously , said Colonel Harrowcluff afterwards in the smoking room . 
And then an extraordinary thing befell . 
In defiance of all precedent Lucas's glowing anticipations were justified and endorsed by the course of events . 
If Cousin Teresa was above the heads of the public , the public heroically adapted itself to her altitude . 
The manager tearfully acknowledged that Cousin Teresa was It . 
Stage hands and supers and programme sellers acknowledged it to one another without the least reservation . 
The name of the REVUE dwindled to secondary importance , and vast letters of electric blue blazoned the words Cousin Teresa from the front of the great palace of pleasure . 
And , of course , the magic of the famous refrain laid its spell all over the Metropolis . 
And the more thoughtful circles of the great city were not deaf to the claims and significance of the popular melody . 
That is why one welcomes an intelligible production like 'Cousin Teresa , that has a genuine message for one . 
One can't understand the message all at once , of course , but one felt from the very first that it was there . 
I've been to see it eighteen times and I'm going again to morrow and on Thursday . 
One can't see it often enough . 
It would be rather a popular move if we gave this Harrowcluff person a knighthood or something of the sort , said the Minister reflectively . 
Which Harrowcluff ? asked his secretary . 
Which ? There is only one , isn't there ? said the Minister the 'Cousin Teresa' man , of course . 
I think every one would be pleased if we knighted him . 
Literature , explained the Minister . 
And thus , after a fashion , Colonel Harrowcluff's expectation of seeing his son's name in the list of Honours was gratified . 
THE YARKAND MANNER SIR LULWORTH QUAYNE was making a leisurely progress through the Zoological Society's Gardens in company with his nephew , recently returned from Mexico . 
The latter was interested in comparing and contrasting allied types of animals occurring in the North American and Old World fauna . 
In human affairs the same phenomenon is occasionally noticeable , said Sir Lulworth perhaps the most striking instance of it occurred in this country while you were away in the wilds of Mexico . 
I mean the wander fever which suddenly displayed itself in the managing and editorial staffs of certain London newspapers . 
It began with the stampede of the entire staff of one of our most brilliant and enterprising weeklies to the banks of the Seine and the heights of Montmartre . 
The migration was a brief one , but it heralded an era of restlessness in the Press world which lent quite a new meaning to the phrase 'newspaper circulation . 
Other editorial staffs were not slow to imitate the example that had been set them . 
And even when enterprising and adventurous editors took themselves and their staffs further afield there were some unavoidable clashings . 
For instance , the SCRUTATOR , SPORTING BLUFF , and THE DAMSELS' OWN PAPER all pitched on Khartoum for the same week . 
This was , in many respects , the most remarkable of all the Press stampedes that were experienced at this time . 
That was doing things rather thoroughly , wasn't it ? said the nephew . 
Well , you see , said Sir Lulworth , the migration idea was falling somewhat into disrepute from the half hearted manner in which it was occasionally carried out . 
Quite in keeping , too , with the older and better traditions of British journalism was the manner of the home coming no bombast , no personal advertisement , no flamboyant interviews . 
Even a complimentary luncheon at the Voyagers' Club was courteously declined . 
Indeed , it began to be felt that the self effacement of the returned pressmen was being carried to a pedantic length . 
People began to talk unkindly of the effect of high altitudes and Eastern atmosphere on minds and temperaments unused to such luxuries . 
The Yarkand manner was not popular . 
And the contents of the paper , said the nephew , did they show the influence of the new style ? Ah ! said Sir Lulworth , that was the exciting thing . 
In home affairs , social questions , and the ordinary events of the day not much change was noticeable . 
The aforetime standard of excellence was scarcely maintained , but at any rate the general lines of policy and outlook were not departed from . 
It was in the realm of foreign affairs that a startling change took place . 
Blunt , forcible , outspoken articles appeared , couched in language which nearly turned the autumn manoeuvres of six important Powers into mobilisations . 
Whatever else the DAILY INTELLIGENCER had learned in the East , it had not acquired the art of diplomatic ambiguity . 
The man in the street enjoyed the articles and bought the paper as he had never bought it before the men in Downing Street took a different view . 
A deputation , consisting of the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , four leading financiers , and a well known Nonconformist divine , made its way to the offices of the paper . 
At the door leading to the editorial department the way was barred by a nervous but defiant office boy . 
'You can't see the editor nor any of the staff , he announced . 
'We insist on seeing the editor or some responsible person , said the Prime Minister , and the deputation forced its way in . 
The boy had spoken truly there was no one to be seen . 
In the whole suite of rooms there was no sign of human life . 
It contained a scrap of paper on which was written the following message 'Entire party captured by brigand tribe on homeward journey . 
Quarter of million demanded as ransom , but would probably take less . 
Inform Government , relations , and friends . 
There followed the signatures of the principal members of the party and instructions as to how and where the money was to be paid . 
The letter had been directed to the office boy in charge , who had quietly suppressed it . 
The articles on foreign affairs were entirely his own composition . 
The articles on foreign affairs reverted to the wonted traditions of the paper . 
One of them , I believe , is still lost somewhere in the Tigris Valley . 
And the boy ? Is still in journalism . 
THE BYZANTINE OMELETTE SOPHIE CHATTEL MONKHEIM was a Socialist by conviction and a Chattel Monkheim by marriage . 
The particular member of that wealthy family whom she had married was rich , even as his relatives counted riches . 
Sophie had very advanced and decided views as to the distribution of money it was a pleasing and fortunate circumstance that she also had the money . 
It is one of the consolations of middle aged reformers that the good they inculcate must live after them if it is to live at all . 
The Duke of Syria had consented to come beneath her roof as a guest , was even now installed beneath her roof , and would shortly be sitting at her dining table . 
She could not have explained why , but no one was likely to ask her for an explanation , and most hostesses envied her . 
You must surpass yourself to night , Richardson , she said complacently to her maid I must be looking my very best . 
We must all surpass ourselves . 
The maid said nothing , but from the concentrated look in her eyes and the deft play of her fingers it was evident that she was beset with the ambition to surpass herself . 
A knock came at the door , a quiet but peremptory knock , as of some one who would not be denied . 
Go and see who it is , said Sophie it may be something about the wine . 
Richardson held a hurried conference with an invisible messenger at the door when she returned there was noticeable a curious listlessness in place of her hitherto alert manner . 
What is it ? asked Sophie . 
The household servants have 'downed tools , madame , said Richardson . 
Downed tools ! exclaimed Sophie do you mean to say they've gone on strike ? Yes , madame , said Richardson , adding the information It's Gaspare that the trouble is about . 
Gaspare ? said Sophie wanderingly the emergency chef ! The omelette specialist ! Yes , madame . 
Before he became an omelette specialist he was a valet , and he was one of the strike breakers in the great strike at Lord Grimford's two years ago . 
As soon as the household staff here learned that you had engaged him they resolved to down tools' as a protest . 
They haven't got any grievance against you personally , but they demand that Gaspare should be immediately dismissed . 
But , protested Sophie , he is the only man in England who understands how to make a Byzantine omelette . 
I engaged him specially for the Duke of Syria's visit , and it would be impossible to replace him at short notice . 
I should have to send to Paris , and the Duke loves Byzantine omelettes . 
It was the one thing we talked about coming from the station . 
He was one of the strike breakers at Lord Grimford's , reiterated Richardson . 
This is too awful , said Sophie a strike of servants at a moment like this , with the Duke of Syria staying in the house . 
Something must be done immediately . 
Quick , finish my hair and I'll go and see what I can do to bring them round . 
I can't finish your hair , madame , said Richardson quietly , but with immense decision . 
I belong to the union and I can't do another half minute's work till the strike is settled . 
I'm sorry to be disobliging . 
But this is inhuman ! exclaimed Sophie tragically I've always been a model mistress and I've refused to employ any but union servants , and this is the result . 
I can't finish my hair myself I don't know how to . 
What am I to do ? It's wicked ! Wicked is the word , said Richardson I'm a good Conservative and I've no patience with this Socialist foolery , asking your pardon . 
It's tyranny , that's what it is , all along the line , but I've my living to make , same as other people , and I've got to belong to the union . 
I couldn't touch another hair pin without a strike permit , not if you was to double my wages . 
The door burst open and Catherine Malsom raged into the room . 
Here's a nice affair , she screamed , a strike of household servants without a moment's warning , and I'm left like this ! I can't appear in public in this condition . 
After a very hasty scrutiny Sophie assured her that she could not . 
Have they all struck ? she asked her maid . 
Not the kitchen staff , said Richardson , they belong to a different union . 
Dinner at least will be assured , said Sophie , that is something to be thankful for . 
I know it's difficult to manage without a maid can't your husband be any help to you ? asked Sophie despairingly . 
Henry ? He's in worse case than any of us . 
His man is the only person who really understands that ridiculous new fangled Turkish bath that he insists on taking with him everywhere . 
Surely he could do without a Turkish bath for one evening , said Sophie I can't appear without hair , but a Turkish bath is a luxury . 
My good woman , said Catherine , speaking with a fearful intensity , Henry was in the bath when the strike started . 
In it , do you understand ? He's there now . 
Can't he get out ? He doesn't know how to . 
Every time he pulls the lever marked 'release' he only releases hot steam . 
There are two kinds of steam in the bath , 'bearable' and 'scarcely bearable' he has released them both . 
By this time I'm probably a widow . 
I simply can't send away Gaspare , wailed Sophie I should never be able to secure another omelette specialist . 
Any difficulty that I may experience in securing another husband is of course a trifle beneath anyone's consideration , said Catherine bitterly . 
Go , she said to Richardson , and tell the Strike Committee , or whoever are directing this affair , that Gaspare is herewith dismissed . 
Some half an hour later Sophie marshalled her guests in the Grand Salon preparatory to the formal march to the dining room . 
But the tension had been too stupefying while it lasted not to leave some mental effects behind it . 
Sophie talked at random to her illustrious guest , and found her eyes straying with increasing frequency towards the great doors through which would presently come the blessed announcement that dinner was served . 
Then the doors opened and the welcome figure of the butler entered the room . 
But he made no general announcement of a banquet in readiness , and the doors closed behind him his message was for Sophie alone . 
There is no dinner , madame , he said gravely the kitchen staff have 'downed tools . 
Gaspare belongs to the Union of Cooks and Kitchen Employees , and as soon as they heard of his summary dismissal at a moment's notice they struck work . 
They demand his instant reinstatement and an apology to the union . 
I may add , madame , that they are very firm I've been obliged even to hand back the dinner rolls that were already on the table . 
After the lapse of eighteen months Sophie Chattel Monkheim is beginning to go about again among her old haunts and associates , but she still has to be very careful . 
The doctors will not let her attend anything at all exciting , such as a drawing room meeting or a Fabian conference it is doubtful , indeed , whether she wants to . 
It was so good of you to think of me . 
Of course in the majority of cases I hadn't thought about the recipients at all their names were down in my list of 'people who must not be left out . 
If I trusted to remembering them there would be some awful sins of omission . 
But no licence is allowed in the opposite direction . 
Opposite direction what opposite direction ? queried Mrs. Thackenbury . 
There is no outlet for demonstrating your feelings towards people whom you simply loathe . 
That is really the crying need of our modern civilisation . 
Still , if one had chastised a smaller boy for being cheeky weeks before , one was always permitted on that day to recall the episode to his memory by chastising him again . 
That is what the French call reconstructing the crime . 
I should call it reconstructing the punishment , said Mrs. Thackenbury and , anyhow , I don't see how you could introduce a system of primitive schoolboy vengeance into civilised adult life . 
We haven't outgrown our passions , but we are supposed to have learned how to keep them within strictly decorous limits . 
Of course the thing would have to be done furtively and politely , said Clovis the charm of it would be that it would never be perfunctory like the other thing . 
You wouldn't find any truffles but you would find a great peace , such as no amount of present giving could ever bestow . 
I shouldn't , said Mrs. Thackenbury , though her air of protest sounded a bit forced I should feel rather a worm for doing such a thing . 
They might guess I had done it , said Mrs. Thackenbury . 
Of course they would , said Clovis that would be half the satisfaction of the thing , just as you like people at Christmas to know what presents or cards you've sent them . 
The thing would be much easier to manage , of course , when you were on outwardly friendly terms with the object of your dislike . 
It would require no ordinary human strategy to lose Agnes Blaik when luncheon was imminent in fact , I don't believe it could be done . 
Then have all the other guests , people whom you dislike , and lose the luncheon . 
It could have been sent by accident in the wrong direction . 
It would be a ghastly picnic , said Mrs. Thackenbury . 
In this case they would probably burst into tears when their dish is mentioned . 
It would be a heavenly picnic . 
Mrs. Thackenbury was silent for a moment she was probably making a mental list of the people she would like to invite to the Duke Humphrey picnic . 
It would be rather jolly if you could lure him into a hammock in the orchard , just near the spot where there is a wasps' nest every summer . 
It takes some doing to get out of a hammock in a hurry . 
They might sting him to death , protested Mrs. Thackenbury . 
His mother would be my enemy for life , said Mrs. Thackenbury . 
That would be one greeting less to exchange at Christmas , said Clovis . 
THE DREAMER IT was the season of sales . 
Adela Chemping , who considered herself in some measure superior to the allurements of an ordinary bargain sale , made a point of attending the reduction week at Walpurgis and Nettlepink's . 
I'm not a bargain hunter , she said , but I like to go where bargains are . 
Which showed that beneath her surface strength of character there flowed a gracious undercurrent of human weakness . 
As Cyprian was not yet eighteen she hoped he might not have reached that stage in masculine development when parcel carrying is looked on as a thing abhorrent . 
Meet me just outside the floral department , she wrote to him , and don't be a moment later than eleven . 
He was quietly dressed that sartorial quietude which frequently accompanies early adolescence , and is usually attributed by novel writers to the influence of a widowed mother . 
His hair was brushed back in a smoothness as of ribbon seaweed and seamed with a narrow furrow that scarcely aimed at being a parting . 
His aunt particularly noted this item of his toilet when they met at the appointed rendezvous , because he was standing waiting for her bare headed . 
Where is your hat ? she asked . 
I didn't bring one with me , he replied . 
Adela Chemping was slightly scandalised . 
Cyprian looked at her with his wondering , dreamy eyes . 
If one hasn't got a hat on one can't take it off . 
Mrs. Chemping sighed with great relief her worst fear had been laid at rest . 
It is more orthodox to wear a hat , she observed , and then turned her attention briskly to the business in hand . 
We will go first to the table linen counter , she said , leading the way in that direction I should like to look at some napkins . 
Millicent asked me to get her a couple of decanters if there were any going really cheap , she explained on the way , and I really do want a salad bowl . 
I can come back to the napkins later on . 
She handled and scrutinised a large number of decanters and a long series of salad bowls , and finally bought seven chrysanthemum vases . 
No one uses that kind of vase nowadays , she informed Cyprian , but they will do for presents next Christmas . 
Two sunshades that were marked down to a price that Mrs. Chemping considered absurdly cheap were added to her purchases . 
One of them will do for Ruth Colson she is going out to the Malay States , and a sunshade will always be useful there . 
And I must get her some thin writing paper . 
It takes up no room in one's baggage . 
Mrs. Chemping bought stacks of writing paper it was so cheap , and it went so flat in a trunk or portmanteau . 
She also bought a few envelopes envelopes somehow seemed rather an extragavance compared with notepaper . 
Do you think Ruth will like blue or grey paper ? she asked Cyprian . 
Grey , said Cyprian , who had never met the lady in question . 
Have you any mauve notepaper of this quality ? Adela asked the assistant . 
We haven't any mauve , said the assistant , but we've two shades of green and a darker shade of grey . 
Mrs. Chemping inspected the greens and the darker grey , and chose the blue . 
Now we can have some lunch , she said . 
He was adamant , however , in resisting his aunt's suggestion that a hat should be bought for him at the counter where men's headwear was being disposed of at temptingly reduced prices . 
I've got as many hats as I want at home , he said , and besides , it rumples one's hair so , trying them on . 
Perhaps he was going to develop into a Nut after all . 
It was a disquieting symptom that he left all the parcels in charge of the cloak room attendant . 
We shall be getting more parcels presently , he said , so we need not collect these till we have finished our shopping . 
His aunt was doubtfully appeased some of the pleasure and excitement of a shopping expedition seemed to evaporate when one was deprived of immediate personal contact with one's purchases . 
I'm going to look at those napkins again , she said , as they descended the stairs to the ground floor . 
There now , exclaimed Adela to herself , she takes him for one of the shop assistants because he hasn't got a hat on . 
I wonder it hasn't happened before . 
Cyprian , at any rate , seemed neither startled nor embarrassed by the error into which the good lady had fallen . 
Examining the ticket on the bag , he announced in a clear , dispassionate voice Black seal , thirty four shillings , marked down to twenty eight . 
As a matter of fact , we are clearing them out at a special reduction price of twenty six shillings . 
They are going off rather fast . 
I'll take it , said the lady , eagerly digging some coins out of her purse . 
Will you take it as it is ? asked Cyprian it will be a matter of a few minutes to get it wrapped up , there is such a crush . 
Never mind , I'll take it as it is , said the purchaser , clutching her treasure and counting the money into Cyprian's palm . 
Several kind strangers helped Adela into the open air . 
It's the crush and the heat , said one sympathiser to another it's enough to turn anyone giddy . 
When she next came across Cyprian he was standing in the crowd that pushed and jostled around the counters of the book department . 
The dream look was deeper than ever in his eyes . 
He had just sold two books of devotion to an elderly Canon . 
THE QUINCE TREE I'VE just been to see old Betsy Mullen , announced Vera to her aunt , Mrs. Bebberly Cumble she seems in rather a bad way about her rent . 
She owes about fifteen weeks of it , and says she doesn't know where any of it is to come from . 
Betsy Mullen always is in difficulties with her rent , and the more people help her with it the less she troubles about it , said the aunt . 
I certainly am not going to assist her any more . 
I told her a year ago that she ought to move . 
But she wouldn't get such a nice garden anywhere else , protested Vera , and there's such a jolly quince tree in the corner . 
I don't suppose there's another quince tree in the whole parish . 
And she never makes any quince jam I think to have a quince tree and not to make quince jam shows such strength of character . 
Oh , she can't possibly move away from that garden . 
When one is sixteen , said Mrs. Bebberly Cumble severely , one talks of things being impossible which are merely uncongenial . 
It is not only possible but it is desirable that Betsy Mullen should move into smaller quarters she has scarcely enough furniture to fill that big cottage . 
As far as value goes , said Vera after a short pause , there is more in Betsy's cottage than in any other house for miles round . 
Nonsense , said the aunt she parted with whatever old china ware she had long ago . 
I'm perfectly certain that I oughtn't to tell you anything about it , said Vera , but , then , I often do things that I oughtn't to do . 
I should be the last person to suggest that you should do anything that you ought not to do to began Mrs. Bebberly Cumble impressively . 
And I am always swayed by the last person who speaks to me , admitted Vera , so I'll do what I ought not to do and tell you . 
Oh no , not that , said Vera , but something quite as important and just as mysterious if anything , rather more scandalous . 
Not the Dublin ? Vera nodded . 
The whole jolly lot of them . 
I found out quite by accident what they were and how they came to be there . 
Mrs. Lamper arranged the matter with Betsy and smuggled the things in . 
Mrs. Lamper ? Yes she does a lot of district visiting , you know . 
Mrs. Lamper has always had the reputation of being a very conscientious woman . 
Of course she was screening some one else , said Vera . 
A remarkable feature of the affair is the extraordinary number of quite respectable people who have involved themselves in its meshes by trying to shield others . 
You most certainly have not entangled me , said Mrs. Bebberly Cumble indignantly . 
I have no intention of shielding anybody . 
The police must know about it at once a theft is a theft , whoever is involved . 
If respectable people choose to turn themselves into receivers and disposers of stolen goods , well , they've ceased to be respectable , that's all . 
I shall telephone immediately Oh , aunt , said Vera reproachfully , it would break the poor Canon's heart if Cuthbert were to be involved in a scandal of this sort . 
All the same , it was Cuthbert's idea to stow the things away in the cottage , and it was his motor that brought them . 
He was only doing it to help his friend Pegginson , you know the Quaker man , who is always agitating for a smaller Navy . 
I forget how he got involved in it . 
Of course if she were to fall ill and die it would be equally unfortunate . 
Her mother lived to be over ninety , she tells me , so with due care and an absence of worry she ought to last for another dozen years at least . 
By that time perhaps some other arrangements will have been made for disposing of the wretched things . 
I shall speak to Cuthbert about it after the wedding , said Mrs. Bebberly Cumble . 
But how on earth did you get to know about it all ? asked her friend , in admiring wonder . 
It was a mystery said Vera . 
Of course it was a mystery , a mystery that baffled everybody . 
THE FORBIDDEN BUZZARDS IS matchmaking at all in your line ? Hugo Peterby asked the question with a certain amount of personal interest . 
It's as bad as selling a man a horse with half a dozen latent vices and watching him discover them piecemeal in the course of the hunting season . 
I suppose you're thinking of the Coulterneb girl . 
She's certainly jolly , and quite all right as far as looks go , and I believe a certain amount of money adheres to her . 
What I don't see is how you will ever manage to propose to her . 
In all the time I've known her I don't remember her to have stopped talking for three consecutive minutes . 
You'll have to race her six times round the grass paddock for a bet , and then blurt your proposal out before she's got her wind back . 
The paddock is laid up for hay , but if you're really in love with her you won't let a consideration of that sort stop you , especially as it's not your hay . 
I think I could manage the proposing part right enough , said Hugo , if I could count on being left alone with her for four or five hours . 
The trouble is that I'm not likely to get anything like that amount of grace . 
That fellow Lanner is showing signs of interesting himself in the same quarter . 
He's quite heartbreakingly rich and is rather a swell in his way in fact , our hostess is obviously a bit flattered at having him here . 
You see , he's taken something like an aversion to me since the other night in the smoking room . 
who was so fond of that particular story , and now he regards me with politely draped dislike . 
I'll do my best for you , if the opportunity arises , but it will have to be in a roundabout , impersonal manner . 
It's so nice having Mr. Lanner here , confided Mrs. Olston to Clovis the next afternoon he's always been engaged when I've asked him before . 
Such a nice man he really ought to be married to some nice girl . 
Between you and me , I have an idea that he came down here for a certain reason . 
I've had much the same idea , said Clovis , lowering his voice in fact , I'm almost certain of it . 
You mean he's attracted by began Mrs. Olston eagerly . 
I mean he's here for what he can get , said Clovis . 
For what he can GET ? said the hostess with a touch of indignation in her voice what do you mean ? He's a very rich man . 
But what ? Whatever do you mean ? What is his ruling passion ? Egg collecting , said Clovis . 
He has agents all over the world getting rare eggs for him , and his collection is one of the finest in Europe but his great ambition is to collect his treasures personally . 
He stops at no expense nor trouble to achieve that end . 
Very few people know about them , but as a member of the league for protecting rare birds that information would be at his disposal . 
It was the volume dealing with short winged hawks and buzzards . 
Clovis believed that if a lie was worth telling it was worth telling well . 
This is appalling , said Mrs. Olston my husband would never forgive me if anything happened to those birds . 
They've been seen about the woods for the last year or two , but this is the first time they've nested . 
I must do something to stop it . 
Do you think if I appealed to him Clovis laughed . 
The Armenian was found beaten nearly to death a day or two later , and his fences levelled . 
It was assumed to be a case of Mussulman aggression , and noted as such in all the Consular reports , but the eggs are in the Lanner collection . 
No , I don't think I should appeal to his better feelings if I were you . 
I was going to suggest picketing , said Clovis . 
Picketing ! You mean setting guards round the birds ? No round Lanner . 
If the girl was ever alone he never was . 
He was shown all the Aylesbury ducklings and the row of wooden hives where there would have been bees if there had not been bee disease . 
He was also taken to the end of a long lane and shown a distant mound whereon local tradition reported that the Danes had once pitched a camp . 
And when his hostess had to desert him temporarily for other duties he would find Evelyn walking solemnly by his side . 
Lanner was called back to town earlier than he had originally intended . 
Hugo did not bring off his affair with Betty Coulterneb . 
Whether she refused him or whether , as was more generally supposed , he did not get a chance of saying three consecutive words , has never been exactly ascertained . 
Anyhow , she is still the jolly Coulterneb girl . 
The buzzards successfully reared two young ones , which were shot by a local hairdresser . 
THE STAKE RONNIE is a great trial to me , said Mrs. Attray plaintively . 
Only eighteen years old last February and already a confirmed gambler . 
I would much rather sit and talk any day than play bridge cards are such a waste of time , I think . 
But as to Ronnie , bridge and baccarat and poker patience are positively all that he thinks about . 
Why do you let him go there ? asked Eleanor Saxelby . 
My dear , said Mrs. Attray , I don't want to offend them . 
And they lend me one of their cars when mine is out of order you know how often it gets out of order . 
I don't know how often , said Eleanor , but it must happen very frequently . 
He suffers quite a lot from neuralgia , said Mrs. Attray hastily . 
Anyhow , she continued , you can understand that I don't want to offend the Norridrums . 
She liked her meals to be of regular occurrence and assured proportions . 
Still , pursued Mrs. Attray , whatever their own home life may be , as landlords and neighbours they are considerate and obliging , so I don't want to quarrel with them . 
Besides , if Ronnie didn't play cards there he'd be playing somewhere else . 
Not if you were firm with him , said Eleanor I believe in being firm . 
Firm ? I am firm , exclaimed Mrs. Attray I am more than firm I am farseeing . 
I've done everything I can think of to prevent Ronnie from playing for money . 
I wouldn't even let him have the money to tip the hunt servants with , but sent it by postal order . 
He was furiously sulky about it , but I reminded him of what happened to the ten shillings that I gave him for the Young Men's Endeavour League 'Self Denial Week . 
What did happen to it ? asked Eleanor . 
Well , Ronnie did some preliminary endeavouring with it , on his own account , in connection with the Grand National . 
Since then I've been careful not to let him have a penny piece in his hands . 
He'll get round that in some way , said Eleanor with quiet conviction he'll sell things . 
My dear , he's done all that is to be done in that direction already . 
He can't sell his clothes , of course , except his winter overcoat , and I've locked that up in the camphor cupboard on the pretext of preserving it from moth . 
I really don't see what else he can raise money on . 
I consider that I've been both firm and far seeing . 
Has he been at the Norridrums lately ? asked Eleanor . 
He was there yesterday afternoon and stayed to dinner , said Mrs. Attray . 
I don't quite know when he came home , but I fancy it was late . 
Then depend on it he was gambling , said Eleanor , with the assured air of one who has few ideas and makes the most of them . 
Late hours in the country always mean gambling . 
He may have sold some of the Amherst pheasant chicks , suggested Eleanor they would fetch about ten or twelve shillings each , I daresay . 
Ronnie wouldn't do such a thing , said Mrs. Attray and anyhow I went and counted them this morning and they're all there . 
Is that clock right ? asked Eleanor , whose eyes had been straying restlessly towards the mantel piece for some little time lunch is usually so punctual in your establishment . 
Three minutes past the half hour , exclaimed Mrs. Attray cook must be preparing something unusually sumptuous in your honour . 
I am not in the secret I've been out all the morning , you know . 
A special effort by Mrs. Attray's cook was worth waiting a few minutes for . 
As a matter of fact , the luncheon fare , when it made its tardy appearance , was distinctly unworthy of the reputation which the justly treasured cook had built up for herself . 
The soup alone would have sufficed to cast a gloom over any meal that it had inaugurated , and it was not redeemed by anything that followed . 
Not quite the best luncheon I've enjoyed in your house , said Eleanor at last , when her final hope had flickered out with the savoury . 
My dear , it's the worst meal I've sat down to for years , said her hostess that last dish tasted principally of red pepper and wet toast . 
Is anything the matter in the kitchen , Pellin ? she asked of the attendant maid . 
Well , ma'am , the new cook hadn't hardly time to see to things properly , coming in so sudden commenced Pellin by way of explanation . 
The new cook ! screamed Mrs. Attray . 
Colonel Norridrum's cook , ma'am , said Pellin . 
So I thought it would be rather sporting to play them at baccarat for the loan of our cook against a money stake , and I lost , that's all . 
I have had rotten luck at baccarat all this year . 
I tell you what , I'll bet you two of the Amherst pheasants to five shillings that she refuses to have me as a partner at the croquet tournament . 
We're drawn together , you know . 
This time he won his bet . 
CLOVIS ON PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES MARION EGGELBY sat talking to Clovis on the only subject that she ever willingly talked about her offspring and their varied perfections and accomplishments . 
Clovis was not in what could be called a receptive mood the younger generation of Eggelby , depicted in the glowing improbable colours of parent impressionism , aroused in him no enthusiasm . 
Mrs. Eggelby , on the other hand , was furnished with enthusiasm enough for two . 
You would like Eric , she said , argumentatively rather than hopefully . 
Clovis had intimated very unmistakably that he was unlikely to care extravagantly for either Amy or Willie . 
Yes , I feel sure you would like Eric . 
Every one takes to him at once . 
You know , he always reminds me of that famous picture of the youthful David I forget who it's by , but it's very well known . 
That would be sufficient to set me against him , if I saw much of him , said Clovis . 
It would be simply maddening . 
If Eric did that I should detest him . 
Eric doesn't play bridge , said Mrs. Eggelby with dignity . 
Eric is considered quite a wonderful draughts player . 
On the other hand , he knew at least two expert draughts players among them . 
I really don't see what my boys have got to do with the criminal classes , said Mrs. Eggelby resentfully . 
They have been most carefully brought up , I can assure you that . 
That shows that you were nervous as to how they would turn out , said Clovis . 
Now , my mother never bothered about bringing me up . 
Forgotten the difference between right and wrong ! exclaimed Mrs. Eggelby . 
There's my cousin , Editha Clubberley , for instance I can never forget that her birthday is on the th of October . 
One can never mention travel , either , because her second husband had to live permanently abroad . 
Mrs. Shrubley and I move in very different circles , said Mrs. Eggelby stiffly . 
If she can get some one else to pay for the petrol so much the better . 
I don't mind confessing to you that she has taught me more than any other woman I can think of . 
What kind of knowledge ? demanded Mrs. Eggelby , with the air a jury might collectively wear when finding a verdict without leaving the box . 
Well , among other things , she's introduced me to at least four different ways of cooking lobster , said Clovis gratefully . 
That , of course , wouldn't appeal to you people who abstain from the pleasures of the card table never really appreciate the finer possibilities of the dining table . 
I suppose their powers of enlightened enjoyment get atrophied from disuse . 
An aunt of mine was very ill after eating a lobster , said Mrs. Eggelby . 
I daresay , if we knew more of her history , we should find out that she'd often been ill before eating the lobster . 
Of course if she ate it as a child of two weeks old it might have been her first illness and her last . 
But if that was the case I think you should have said so . 
I must be going , said Mrs. Eggelby , in a tone which had been thoroughly sterilised of even perfunctory regret . 
Clovis rose with an air of graceful reluctance . 
I have so enjoyed our little talk about Eric , he said I quite look forward to meeting him some day . 
by several flappers , some maturer beings of the same sex , and a satirical looking Jew . 
In order to carry off the situation with some appearance of unconcern he became spuriously interested in the contents of the flower vase . 
What is the name of these roses , d'you know ? he asked the waiter . 
The waiter was ready at all times to conceal his ignorance concerning items of the wine list or menu he was frankly ignorant as to the specific name of the roses . 
AMY SYLVESTER PARTINGLON , said a voice at Jerton's elbow . 
The voice came from a pleasant faced , well dressed young woman who was sitting at a table that almost touched Jerton's . 
He thanked her hurriedly and nervously for the information , and made some inconsequent remark about the flowers . 
Jerton had not harboured the least intention of extending his thirst for name labels to his neighbour . 
After her rather remarkable announcement , however , he was obliged to say something in the way of polite inquiry . 
Yes , answered the lady , I suppose it is a case of partial loss of memory . 
I was in the train coming down here my ticket told me that I had come from Victoria and was bound for this place . 
I had a couple of five pound notes and a sovereign on me , no visiting cards or any other means of identification , and no idea as to who I am . 
I can only hazily recollect that I have a title I am Lady Somebody beyond that my mind is a blank . 
Hadn't you any luggage with you ? asked Jerton . 
That is what I didn't know . 
I gave him the name of Smith , and presently he emerged from a confused pile of luggage and passengers with a dressing bag and dress basket labelled Kestrel Smith . 
I had to take them I don't see what else I could have done . 
Jerton said nothing , but he rather wondered what the lawful owner of the baggage would do . 
Of course it was dreadful arriving at a strange hotel with the name of Kestrel Smith , but it would have been worse to have arrived without luggage . 
Anyhow , I hate causing trouble . 
Jerton had visions of harassed railway officials and distraught Kestrel Smiths , but he made no attempt to clothe his mental picture in words . 
The lady continued her story . 
Rather too intelligent , that boy he will probably end in Dartmoor . 
The Kestrel Smith toilet tools aren't up to much , but they are better than nothing . 
If you feel sure that you have a title , said Jerton , why not get hold of a peerage and go right through it ? I tried that . 
I skimmed through the list of the House of Lords in 'Whitaker , but a mere printed string of names conveys awfully little to one , you know . 
If you were an army officer and had lost your identity you might pore over the Army List for months without finding out who your were . 
I'm going on another tack I'm trying to find out by various little tests who I am NOT that will narrow the range of uncertainty down a bit . 
You may have noticed , for instance , that I'm lunching principally off lobster Newburg . 
Jerton had not ventured to notice anything of the sort . 
Well , you see , continued the lady , that knocks four off the list at once . 
It'll be rather a lengthy process bringing the list down to one , said Jerton . 
Oh , but , of course , there are heaps of them that I couldn't possibly be women who've got grandchildren or sons old enough to have celebrated their coming of age . 
I've only got to consider the ones about my own age . 
It won't take you ten minutes . 
I'll meet you in the lounge about tea time . 
And the Fair Unknown , having graciously pressed Jerton into the search for her lost identity , rose and left the room . 
At five o'clock Jerton made his way to the hotel lounge he had spent a diligent but fruitless quarter of an hour among the illustrated weeklies in the smoking room . 
His new acquaintance was seated at a small tea table , with a waiter hovering in attendance . 
China tea or Indian ? she asked as Jerton came up . 
China , please , and nothing to eat . 
Have you discovered anything ? Only negative information . 
I suppose the fact of the animal being nameless was what attracted me . 
Did it win ? asked Jerton . 
No , came in fourth , the most irritating thing a horse can do when you've backed it win or place . 
Anyhow , I know now that I'm not Lady Befnal . 
It seems to me that the knowledge was rather dearly bought , commented Jerton . 
Well , yes , it has rather cleared me out , admitted the identity seeker a florin is about all I've got left on me . 
The lobster Newburg made my lunch rather an expensive one , and , of course , I had to tip that boy for what he did to the Kestrel Smith locks . 
I've got rather a useful idea , though . 
I feel certain that I belong to the Pivot Club I'll go back to town and ask the hall porter there if there are any letters for me . 
He knows all the members by sight , and if there are any letters or telephone messages waiting for me of course that will solve the problem . 
If he says there aren't any I shall say 'You know who I am , don't you ? so I'll find out anyway . 
The plan seemed a sound one a difficulty in its execution suggested itself to Jerton . 
Of course , said the lady , when he hinted at the obstacle , there's my fare back to town , and my bill here and cabs and things . 
If you'll lend me three pounds that ought to see me through comfortably . 
Then there is the question of that luggage I don't want to be saddled with that for the rest of my life . 
I'll have it brought down to the hall and you can pretend to mount guard over it while I'm writing a letter . 
Then I shall just slip away to the station , and you can wander off to the smoking room , and they can do what they like with the things . 
They'll advertise them after a bit and the owner can claim them . 
Jerton acquiesced in the manoeuvre , and duly mounted guard over the luggage while its temporary owner slipped unobtrusively out of the hotel . 
Her departure was not , however , altogether unnoticed . 
The Lady Who ? Jerton could scarcely run after a total stranger , break into his conversation , and ask him for information concerning a chance passer by . 
Besides , it was desirable that he should keep up the appearance of looking after the luggage . 
In a minute or two , however , the important personage , the man who knew , came strolling back alone . 
Jerton summoned up all his courage and waylaid him . 
I think I heard you say you knew the lady who went out of the hotel a few minutes ago , a tall lady , dressed in grey . 
Yes , she's the Lady Champion at golf in my part of the world . 
She's furious , too , if you make any allusion to it afterwards . 
Has any luggage been brought here from the station by mistake , a dress basket and dressing case , with the name Kestrel Smith ? It can't be traced anywhere . 
I saw it put in at Victoria , that I'll swear . 
Why there is my luggage ! and the locks have been tampered with ! Jerton heard no more . 
He fled down to the Turkish bath , and stayed there for hours . 
THE STALLED OX THEOPHIL ESHLEY was an artist by profession , a cattle painter by force of environment . 
It is not to be supposed that he lived on a ranche or a dairy farm , in an atmosphere pervaded with horn and hoof , milking stool , and branding iron . 
His home was in a park like , villa dotted district that only just escaped the reproach of being suburban . 
On one side of his garden there abutted a small , picturesque meadow , in which an enterprising neighbour pastured some small picturesque cows of the Channel Island persuasion . 
The Royal Academy encourages orderly , methodical habits in its children . 
Eshley had painted a successful and acceptable picture of cattle drowsing picturesquely under walnut trees , and as he had begun , so , of necessity , he went on . 
In due succession there came Where the Gad Flies Cease from Troubling , The Haven of the Herd , and A dream in Dairyland , studies of walnut trees and dun cows . 
There is an ox in my garden , she announced , in explanation of the tempestuous intrusion . 
An ox , said Eshley blankly , and rather fatuously what kind of ox ? Oh , I don't know what kind , snapped the lady . 
A common or garden ox , to use the slang expression . 
It is the garden part of it that I object to . 
My garden has just been put straight for the winter , and an ox roaming about in it won't improve matters . 
Besides , there are the chrysanthemums just coming into flower . 
How did it get into the garden ? asked Eshley . 
The immediately important question is not how it got in , but how to get it out . 
Won't it go ? said Eshley . 
If it was anxious to go , said Adela Pingsford rather angrily , I should not have come here to chat with you about it . 
I'm practically all alone the housemaid is having her afternoon out and the cook is lying down with an attack of neuralgia . 
Anything that I may have learned at school or in after life about how to remove a large ox from a small garden seems to have escaped from my memory now . 
I paint dairy cows , certainly , admitted Eshley , but I cannot claim to have had any experience in rounding up stray oxen . 
Adela Pingsford said nothing , but led the way to her garden . 
It bore about as much resemblance to the dainty paddock heifers that Eshley was accustomed to paint as the chief of a Kurdish nomad clan would to a Japanese tea shop girl . 
Eshley stood very near the gate while he studied the animal's appearance and demeanour . 
Adela Pingsford continued to say nothing . 
It's eating a chrysanthemum , said Eshley at last , when the silence had become unbearable . 
How observant you are , said Adela bitterly . 
You seem to notice everything . 
As a matter of fact , it has got six chrysanthemums in its mouth at the present moment . 
The necessity for doing something was becoming imperative . 
Eshley took a step or two in the direction of the animal , clapped his hands , and made noises of the Hish and Shoo variety . 
If the ox heard them it gave no outward indication of the fact . 
If any hens should ever stray into my garden , said Adela , I should certainly send for you to frighten them out . 
Since you have been so frank about the variety of the chrysanthemum , said Eshley , I don't mind telling you that this is an Ayrshire ox . 
The icy calm broke down Adela Pingsford used language that sent the artist instinctively a few feet nearer to the ox . 
He picked up a pea stick and flung it with some determination against the animal's mottled flanks . 
The operation of mashing MADEMOISELLE LOUISE BICHOT into a petal salad was suspended for a long moment , while the ox gazed with concentrated inquiry at the stick thrower . 
Adela gazed with equal concentration and more obvious hostility at the same focus . 
As the beast neither lowered its head nor stamped its feet Eshley ventured on another javelin exercise with another pea stick . 
The ox seemed to realise at once that it was to go it gave a hurried final pluck at the bed where the chrysanthemums had been , and strode swiftly up the garden . 
Eshley ran to head it towards the gate , but only succeeded in quickening its pace from a walk to a lumbering trot . 
He discontinued his attempt to interfere with its choice of surroundings . 
If I must have it anywhere on the premises I prefer the garden to the morning room . 
Cattle drives are not in my line , said Eshley if I remember I told you so at the outset . 
I quite agree , retorted the lady , painting pretty pictures of pretty little cows is what you're suited for . 
Where are you going ? screamed Adela . 
To fetch implements , was the answer . 
Implements ? I won't have you use a lasso . 
The room will be wrecked if there's a struggle . 
But the artist marched out of the garden . 
In a couple of minutes he returned , laden with easel , sketching stool , and painting materials . 
Do you mean to say that you're going to sit quietly down and paint that brute while it's destroying my morning room ? gasped Adela . 
It was your suggestion , said Eshley , setting his canvas in position . 
I forbid it I absolutely forbid it ! stormed Adela . 
I don't see what standing you have in the matter , said the artist you can hardly pretend that it's your ox , even by adoption . 
You seem to forget that it's in my morning room , eating my flowers , came the raging retort . 
You seem to forget that the cook has neuralgia , said Eshley she may be just dozing off into a merciful sleep and your outcry will waken her . 
Consideration for others should be the guiding principle of people in our station of life . 
The man is mad ! exclaimed Adela tragically . 
A moment later it was Adela herself who appeared to go mad . 
The ox had finished the vase flowers and the cover of Israel Kalisch , and appeared to be thinking of leaving its rather restricted quarters . 
Eshley noticed its restlessness and promptly flung it some bunches of Virginia creeper leaves as an inducement to continue the sitting . 
I forget how the proverb runs , he observed of something about 'better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is . 
We seem to have all the ingredients for the proverb ready to hand . 
I shall go to the Public Library and get them to telephone for the police , announced Adela , and , raging audibly , she departed . 
Eshley packed up his tools and followed the animal's example and Larkdene was left to neuralgia and the cook . 
The episode was the turning point in Eshley's artistic career . 
THE STORY TELLER IT was a hot afternoon , and the railway carriage was correspondingly sultry , and the next stop was at Templecombe , nearly an hour ahead . 
The occupants of the carriage were a small girl , and a smaller girl , and a small boy . 
Both the aunt and the children were conversational in a limited , persistent way , reminding one of the attentions of a housefly that refuses to be discouraged . 
Most of the aunt's remarks seemed to begin with Don't , and nearly all of the children's remarks began with Why ? The bachelor said nothing out loud . 
Don't , Cyril , don't , exclaimed the aunt , as the small boy began smacking the cushions of the seat , producing a cloud of dust at each blow . 
Come and look out of the window , she added . 
The child moved reluctantly to the window . 
Why are those sheep being driven out of that field ? he asked . 
I expect they are being driven to another field where there is more grass , said the aunt weakly . 
But there is lots of grass in that field , protested the boy there's nothing else but grass there . 
Aunt , there's lots of grass in that field . 
Perhaps the grass in the other field is better , suggested the aunt fatuously . 
Why is it better ? came the swift , inevitable question . 
Oh , look at those cows ! exclaimed the aunt . 
Nearly every field along the line had contained cows or bullocks , but she spoke as though she were drawing attention to a rarity . 
Why is the grass in the other field better ? persisted Cyril . 
The frown on the bachelor's face was deepening to a scowl . 
He was a hard , unsympathetic man , the aunt decided in her mind . 
She was utterly unable to come to any satisfactory decision about the grass in the other field . 
The smaller girl created a diversion by beginning to recite On the Road to Mandalay . 
She only knew the first line , but she put her limited knowledge to the fullest possible use . 
Whoever it was who had made the wager was likely to lose his bet . 
Come over here and listen to a story , said the aunt , when the bachelor had looked twice at her and once at the communication cord . 
The children moved listlessly towards the aunt's end of the carriage . 
Evidently her reputation as a story teller did not rank high in their estimation . 
Wouldn't they have saved her if she hadn't been good ? demanded the bigger of the small girls . 
It was exactly the question that the bachelor had wanted to ask . 
Well , yes , admitted the aunt lamely , but I don't think they would have run quite so fast to her help if they had not liked her so much . 
It's the stupidest story I've ever heard , said the bigger of the small girls , with immense conviction . 
I didn't listen after the first bit , it was so stupid , said Cyril . 
The smaller girl made no actual comment on the story , but she had long ago recommenced a murmured repetition of her favourite line . 
You don't seem to be a success as a story teller , said the bachelor suddenly from his corner . 
The aunt bristled in instant defence at this unexpected attack . 
It's a very difficult thing to tell stories that children can both understand and appreciate , she said stiffly . 
I don't agree with you , said the bachelor . 
Perhaps you would like to tell them a story , was the aunt's retort . 
Tell us a story , demanded the bigger of the small girls . 
Once upon a time , began the bachelor , there was a little girl called Bertha , who was extra ordinarily good . 
The children's momentarily aroused interest began at once to flicker all stories seemed dreadfully alike , no matter who told them . 
Was she pretty ? asked the bigger of the small girls . 
Not as pretty as any of you , said the bachelor , but she was horribly good . 
There was a wave of reaction in favour of the story the word horrible in connection with goodness was a novelty that commended itself . 
It seemed to introduce a ring of truth that was absent from the aunt's tales of infant life . 
She was so good , continued the bachelor , that she won several medals for goodness , which she always wore , pinned on to her dress . 
There was a medal for obedience , another medal for punctuality , and a third for good behaviour . 
They were large metal medals and they clicked against one another as she walked . 
No other child in the town where she lived had as many as three medals , so everybody knew that she must be an extra good child . 
Horribly good , quoted Cyril . 
It was a beautiful park , and no children were ever allowed in it , so it was a great honour for Bertha to be allowed to go there . 
Were there any sheep in the park ? demanded Cyril . 
No said the bachelor , there were no sheep . 
Why weren't there any sheep ? came the inevitable question arising out of that answer . 
The aunt permitted herself a smile , which might almost have been described as a grin . 
For that reason the Prince never kept a sheep in his park or a clock in his palace . 
The aunt suppressed a gasp of admiration . 
Was the Prince killed by a sheep or by a clock ? asked Cyril . 
What colour were they ? Black with white faces , white with black spots , black all over , grey with white patches , and some were white all over . 
Why weren't there any flowers ? Because the pigs had eaten them all , said the bachelor promptly . 
The gardeners had told the Prince that you couldn't have pigs and flowers , so he decided to have pigs and no flowers . 
There was a murmur of approval at the excellence of the Prince's decision so many people would have decided the other way . 
There were lots of other delightful things in the park . 
Just then an enormous wolf came prowling into the park to see if it could catch a fat little pig for its supper . 
What colour was it ? asked the children , amid an immediate quickening of interest . 
Mud colour all over , with a black tongue and pale grey eyes that gleamed with unspeakable ferocity . 
The first thing that it saw in the park was Bertha her pinafore was so spotlessly white and clean that it could be seen from a great distance . 
Bertha saw the wolf and saw that it was stealing towards her , and she began to wish that she had never been allowed to come into the park . 
She ran as hard as she could , and the wolf came after her with huge leaps and bounds . 
She managed to reach a shrubbery of myrtle bushes and she hid herself in one of the thickest of the bushes . 
The wolf came sniffing among the branches , its black tongue lolling out of its mouth and its pale grey eyes glaring with rage . 
Bertha was terribly frightened , and thought to herself 'If I had not been so extraordinarily good I should have been safe in the town at this moment . 
Bertha was trembling very much at having the wolf prowling and sniffing so near her , and as she trembled the medal for obedience clinked against the medals for good conduct and punctuality . 
The wolf was just moving away when he heard the sound of the medals clinking and stopped to listen they clinked again in a bush quite near him . 
He dashed into the bush , his pale grey eyes gleaming with ferocity and triumph , and dragged Bertha out and devoured her to the last morsel . 
All that was left of her were her shoes , bits of clothing , and the three medals for goodness . 
Were any of the little pigs killed ? No , they all escaped . 
The story began badly , said the smaller of the small girls , but it had a beautiful ending . 
It is the most beautiful story that I ever heard , said the bigger of the small girls , with immense decision . 
It is the ONLY beautiful story I have ever heard , said Cyril . 
A dissentient opinion came from the aunt . 
A most improper story to tell to young children ! You have undermined the effect of years of careful teaching . 
A chill , wet October afternoon was merging into a bleak , wet October evening , and the club smoking room seemed warmer and cosier by contrast . 
Amblecope , the man with the restless , prominent eyes and the mouth ready mobilised for conversational openings , had planted himself in a neighbouring arm chair . 
Now his season of immunity was coming to an end . 
There was no escape in another moment he would be numbered among those who knew Amblecope to speak to or rather , to suffer being spoken to . 
The intruder was armed with a copy of COUNTRY LIFE , not for purposes of reading , but as an aid to conversational ice breaking . 
I can't explain why without going into a long and complicated story . 
Oh , certainly , certainly , said Amblecope hastily long and complicated stories that were not told by himself were abominable in his eyes . 
He turned the pages of COUNTRY LIFE and became spuriously interested in the picture of a Mongolian pheasant . 
Not a bad representation of the Mongolian variety , he exclaimed , holding it up for his neighbour's inspection . 
They do very well in some covers . 
Take some stopping too , once they're fairly on the wing . 
She is seventy five and can't hit a thing , but she always goes out with the guns . 
When I say she can't hit a thing , I don't mean to say that she doesn't occasionally endanger the lives of her fellow guns , because that wouldn't be true . 
In fact , the chief Government Whip won't allow Ministerial M. P. 's to go out with her 'We don't want to incur by elections needlessly , he quite reasonably observed . 
Rather a long run for a wounded pheasant , snapped Amblecope . 
The story rests on my aunt's authority , said Treddleford coldly , and she is local vice president of the Young Women's Christian Association . 
Anyway , she got her bird . 
Some birds , of course , take a lot of killing , said Amblecope so do some fish . 
The van load consisted of blotting paper , and every drop of water in that pool had been sucked up into the mass of spilt cargo . 
There was silence for nearly half a minute in the smoking room , and Treddleford began to let his mind steal back towards the golden road that led to Samarkand . 
The animal lived up to its reputation , and passed the most explosive of motor bikes with an indifference that almost amounted to apathy . 
However , I suppose we all draw the line somewhere , and this particular cob drew it at travelling wild beast shows . 
The dogcart was overturned in a ditch and kicked to splinters , and the cob went home across country . 
'I suppose you wouldn't care for the loan of a couple of my camels ? the showman suggested , in humorous sympathy . 
I would , said my sister , who had ridden camel back in Egypt , and she overruled the objections of the groom , who hadn't . 
You may imagine the sensation that her small but imposing caravan created when she arrived at the hall door . 
The entire garden party flocked up to gape . 
My sister was rather glad to slip down from her camel , and the groom was thankful to scramble down from his . 
The German governess met them just at the turn of the corridor . 
Amblecope got up from his chair and moved to another part of the room . 
Treddleford reopened his book and betook himself once more across The dragon green , the luminous , the dark , the serpent haunted sea . 
For a blessed half hour he disported himself in imagination by the gay Aleppo Gate , and listened to the bird voiced singing man . 
Then the world of to day called him back a page summoned him to speak with a friend on the telephone . 
Amblecope made as if to pass out first , but a new born pride was surging in Treddleford's breast and he waved him back . 
I believe I take precedence , he said coldly you are merely the club Bore I am the club Liar . 
THE ELK TERESA , Mrs. Thropplestance , was the richest and most intractable old woman in the county of Woldshire . 
In her dealings with the world in general her manner suggested a blend between a Mistress of the Robes and a Master of Foxhounds , with the vocabulary of both . 
In her domestic circle she comported herself in the arbitrary style that one attributes , probably without the least justification , to an American political Boss in the bosom of his caucus . 
In those intervening years she had outlived her son and quarrelled with her elder grandson , who had married without her consent or approval . 
The favourable recommendation would have to come from Mrs. Thropplestance . 
It was the inheritance of her fortune and estate that was in question , and she was evidently disposed to exercise and enjoy her powers of selection and rejection to the utmost . 
Quite right of her , said Mrs. Yonelet with vague approval it's what any girl of spirit would have done . 
Still , that was a year or two ago , I believe Bertie is older now , and so is Teresa . 
Naturally she must be anxious to see him settled . 
The vicar's wife reflected that Teresa seemed to be the one person who showed no immediate anxiety to supply Bertie with a wife , but she kept the thought to herself . 
Dora helped in the Christmas decorations of the parish church , and Bertie helped her to help . 
Whatever sport or exercise or occupation Bertie and Dora indulged in together was unfailingly chronicled and advertised by Mrs. Yonelet for the due enlightenment of Bertie's grandmother . 
Those two inseparables have just come in from a bicycle ride , she would announce quite a picture they make , so fresh and glowing after their spin . 
A picture needing words , would be Teresa's private comment , and as far as Bertie was concerned she was determined that the words should remain unspoken . 
On the afternoon after Christmas Day Mrs. Yonelet dashed into the drawing room , where her hostess was sitting amid a circle of guests and teacups and muffin dishes . 
Fate had placed what seemed like a trump card in the hands of the patiently manoeuvring mother . 
With eyes blazing with excitement and a voice heavily escorted with exclamation marks she made a dramatic announcement . 
It was touch and go ! She threw her niblick at it , but that didn't stop it . 
In another moment she would have been crushed beneath its hoofs , panted Mrs. Yonelet . 
The animal is not safe , said Teresa , handing her agitated guest a cup of tea . 
I forget if you take sugar . 
I suppose the solitary life it leads has soured its temper . 
There are muffins in the grate . 
It's not my fault I've tried to get it a mate for ever so long . 
You don't know of anyone with a lady elk for sale or exchange , do you ? she asked the company generally . 
But Mrs. Yonelet was in no humour to listen to talk of elk marriages . 
The mating of two human beings was the subject uppermost in her mind , and the opportunity for advancing her pet project was too valuable to be neglected . 
Teresa , she exclaimed impressively , after those two young people have been thrown together so dramatically , nothing can be quite the same again between them . 
Bertie has done more than save Dora's life he has earned her affection . 
One cannot help feeling that Fate has consecrated them for one another . 
There is a good deal of sameness in country life , you know . 
It seems to be a very dangerous animal , said one of the guests . 
I also gave her a black silk skirt she said that though there hadn't been a funeral in her family she felt as if there had been . 
Anyhow , we parted friends . 
I can't offer you a silk skirt , Emily , but you may have another cup of tea . 
As I have already remarked , there are muffins in the grate . 
A German governess ! What an idea ! gasped Mrs. Yonelet . 
In fact , next to Teresa , she's about the most assertive and combative personality in the neighbourhood . 
She's pointed out to my husband all sorts of errors in his sermons , and she gave Sir Laurence a public lecture on how he ought to handle the hounds . 
You know how sensitive Sir Laurence is about any criticism of his Mastership , and to have a governess laying down the law to him nearly drove him into a fit . 
She's behaved like that to every one , except , of course , Teresa , and every one has been defensively rude to her in return . 
The Bickelbys are simply too afraid of her to get rid of her . 
Teresa's only regret will be that she won't be alive to see it . 
Bertie might not be disposed to pay much attention to the consecrations of Fate , but he would not dream of opposing his grandmother . 
The vicar's wife spoke with the quiet authority of one who has intuitive knowledge , and in her heart of hearts Mrs. Yonelet believed her . 
Six months later the elk had to be destroyed . 
In a fit of exceptional moroseness it had killed the Bickelbys' German governess . 
Dora Yonelet broke off her engagement with an Indian civilian , and married Bertie three months after his grandmother's death Teresa did not long survive the German governess fiasco . 
At Christmas time every year young Mrs. Thropplestance hangs an extra large festoon of evergreens on the elk horns that decorate the hall . 
It was a fearsome beast , she observes to Bertie , but I always feel that it was instrumental in bringing us together . 
Which , of course , was true . 
DOWN PENS HAVE you written to thank the Froplinsons for what they sent us ? asked Egbert . 
Some one will have to write to them , said Egbert . 
I don't dispute the necessity , but I don't think the some one should be me , said Janetta . 
Eleven letters to day and nine yesterday , all couched in the same strain of ecstatic thankfulness really , you can't expect me to sit down to another . 
There is such a thing as writing oneself out . 
I've written nearly as many , said Egbert , and I've had my usual business correspondence to get through , too . 
Besides , I don't know what it was that the Froplinsons sent us . 
A William the Conqueror calendar , said Janetta , with a quotation of one of his great thoughts for every day in the year . 
Impossible , said Egbert he didn't have three hundred and sixty five thoughts in the whole of his life , or , if he did , he kept them to himself . 
He was a man of action , not of introspection . 
Well , it was William Wordsworth , then , said Janetta I know William came into it somewhere . 
That sounds more probable , said Egbert well , let's collaborate on this letter of thanks and get it done . 
I'll dictate , and you can scribble it down . 
'Dear Mrs. Froplinson thank you and your husband so much for the very pretty calendar you sent us . 
It was very good of you to think of us . 
You can't possibly say that , said Janetta , laying down her pen . 
It's what I always do say , and what every one says to me , protested Egbert . 
We sent them something on the twenty second , said Janetta , so they simply HAD to think of us . 
There was no getting away from it . 
What did we send them ? asked Egbert gloomily . 
Bridge markers , said Janetta , in a cardboard case , with some inanity about 'digging for fortune with a royal spade' emblazoned on the cover . 
With less sincerity and infinitely more trouble they eventually thanked me . 
The Froplinsons don't play bridge , said Egbert . 
One is not supposed to notice social deformities of that sort , said Janetta it wouldn't be polite . 
Well , let's get on with the letter of thanks , said Egbert . 
'How clever of you to guess that Wordsworth is our favourite poet , dictated Egbert . 
Again Janetta laid down her pen . 
No , the best thing to do is to drop all further allusion to the calendar and switch off on to some other topic . 
Then you can stick in any remark that comes into your head it needn't be clever . 
The Froplinsons won't know whether it is or isn't . 
We don't even know on which side they are in politics , objected Egbert and anyhow you can't suddenly dismiss the subject of the calendar . 
Surely there must be some intelligent remark that can be made about it . 
Well , we can't think of one , said Janetta wearily the fact is , we've both written ourselves out . 
Heavens ! I've just remembered Mrs. Stephen Ludberry . 
I haven't thanked her for what she sent . 
What did she send ? I forget I think it was a calendar . 
There was a long silence , the forlorn silence of those who are bereft of hope and have almost ceased to care . 
Presently Egbert started from his seat with an air of resolution . 
The light of battle was in his eyes . 
Let me come to the writing table , he exclaimed . 
But you would have to make some acknowledgment of presents received , objected Janetta otherwise people would never know whether they had arrived safely . 
It sounds delightfully simple , said Janetta wistfully , but people would consider it too cut and dried , too perfunctory . 
So you see the present system of acknowledgment is just as perfunctory and conventional as the counterfoil business would be , only ten times more tiresome and brain racking . 
Your plan would certainly bring the ideal of a Happy Christmas a step nearer realisation , said Janetta . 
There are exceptions , of course , said Egbert , people who really try to infuse a breath of reality into their letters of acknowledgment . 
Hams are not what they used to be . 
It would be a pity to be deprived of her Christmas comments , but that loss would be swallowed up in the general gain . 
Meanwhile , said Janetta , what am I to say to the Froplinsons ? THE NAME DAY ADVENTURES , according to the proverb , are to the adventurous . 
Quite as often they are to the non adventurous , to the retiring , to the constitutionally timid . 
If a mad dog or a Mad Mullah had come his way he would have surrendered the way without hesitation . 
She had looked up the route on the map , and the journey did not appear likely to be expensive . 
Between the lines of her communication there lay a hint that if he really cared for her Abbleway obtained leave of absence and added a journey to Fiume to his life's adventures . 
He left Vienna on a cold , cheerless day . 
Snow comes , said the train official to the station officials and they agreed that snow was about to come . 
And it came , rapidly , plenteously . 
The train had not been more than an hour on its journey when the cotton wool clouds commenced to dissolve in a blinding downpour of snowflakes . 
The Vienna Fiume line is scarcely the best equipped of the Austrian State railways , and Abbleway began to have serious fears for a breakdown . 
The train had slowed down to a painful and precarious crawl and presently came to a halt at a spot where the drifting snow had accumulated in a formidable barrier . 
The engine made a special effort and broke through the obstruction , but in the course of another twenty minutes it was again held up . 
The process of breaking through was renewed , and the train doggedly resumed its way , encountering and surmounting fresh hindrances at frequent intervals . 
The puffing and rumbling grew fainter , as though it were dying away through the agency of intervening distance . 
Abbleway suddenly gave vent to an exclamation of scandalised alarm , opened the window , and peered out into the snowstorm . 
The flakes perched on his eyelashes and blurred his vision , but he saw enough to help him to realise what had happened . 
The engine had made a mighty plunge through the drift and had gone merrily forward , lightened of the load of its rear carriage , whose coupling had snapped under the strain . 
Abbleway was alone , or almost alone , with a derelict railway waggon , in the heart of some Styrian or Croatian forest . 
In the third class compartment next to his own he remembered to have seen a peasant woman , who had entered the train at a small wayside station . 
With the exception of that woman , he exclaimed dramatically to himself , the nearest living beings are probably a pack of wolves . 
Before making his way to the third class compartment to acquaint his fellow traveller with the extent of the disaster Abbleway hurriedly pondered the question of the woman's nationality . 
He had acquired a smattering of Slavonic tongues during his residence in Vienna , and felt competent to grapple with several racial possibilities . 
If she is Croat or Serb or Bosniak I shall be able to make her understand , he promised himself . 
If she is Magyar , heaven help me ! We shall have to converse entirely by signs . 
He entered the carriage and made his momentous announcement in the best approach to Croat speech that he could achieve . 
Abbleway repeated his information with variations of Slavonic tongues and generous displays of pantomime . 
Ah , said the woman at last in German dialect , the train has gone ? We are left . 
She seemed about as much interested as though Abbleway had told her the result of the municipal elections in Amsterdam . 
They will find out at some station , and when the line is clear of snow they will send an engine . 
It happens that way sometimes . 
We may be here all night ! exclaimed Abbleway . 
The woman nodded as though she thought it possible . 
Are there wolves in these parts ? asked Abbleway hurriedly . 
Many , said the woman just outside this forest my aunt was devoured three years ago , as she was coming home from market . 
The horse and a young pig that was in the cart were eaten too . 
The horse was a very old one , but it was a beautiful young pig , oh , so fat . 
I cried when I heard that it was taken . 
They may attack us here , said Abbleway tremulously they could easily break in , these carriages are like matchwood . 
We may both be devoured . 
You , perhaps , said the woman calmly not me . 
Why not you ? demanded Abbleway . 
It is the day of Saint Maria Kleopha , my name day . 
She would not allow me to be eaten by wolves on her day . 
Such a thing could not be thought of . 
You , yes , but not me . 
It is only afternoon now if we are to be left here till morning we shall be starving . 
I have here some good eatables , said the woman tranquilly on my festival day it is natural that I should have provision with me . 
I have five good blood sausages in the town shops they cost twenty five heller each . 
Things are dear in the town shops . 
I will give you fifty heller apiece for a couple of them , said Abbleway with some enthusiasm . 
In a railway accident things become very dear , said the woman these blood sausages are four kronen apiece . 
In Agram you can buy them cheaper , and in Paradise no doubt they will be given to us for nothing , but here they cost four kronen each . 
I have a small piece of Emmenthaler cheese and a honey cake and a piece of bread that I can let you have . 
That will be another three kronen , eleven kronen in all . 
There is a piece of ham , but that I cannot let you have on my name day . 
Abbleway wondered to himself what price she would have put on the ham , and hurried to pay her the eleven kronen before her emergency tariff expanded into a famine tariff . 
As he was taking possession of his modest store of eatables he suddenly heard a noise which set his heart thumping in a miserable fever of fear . 
'There was a scraping and shuffling as of some animal or animals trying to climb up to the footboard . 
There are hundreds of them , whispered Abbleway they have scented us . 
They will tear the carriage to pieces . 
Not me , on my name day . 
The holy Maria Kleopha would not permit it , said the woman with provoking calm . 
The heads dropped down from the window and an uncanny silence fell on the beleaguered carriage . 
Abbleway neither moved nor spoke . 
Perhaps the brutes had not clearly seen or winded the human occupants of the carriage , and had prowled away on some other errand of rapine . 
The long torture laden minutes passed slowly away . 
It grows cold , said the woman suddenly , crossing over to the far end of the carriage , where the heads had appeared . 
The heating apparatus does not work any longer . 
See , over there beyond the trees , there is a chimney with smoke coming from it . 
It is not far , and the snow has nearly stopped , I shall find a path through the forest to that house with the chimney . 
A moment later he hid his face in his hands two gaunt lean figures rushed upon her from the forest . 
No doubt she had courted her fate , but Abbleway had no wish to see a human being torn to pieces and devoured before his eyes . 
When he looked at last a new sensation of scandalised astonishment took possession of him . 
He had been straitly brought up in a small English town , and he was not prepared to be the witness of a miracle . 
The wolves were not doing anything worse to the woman than drench her with snow as they gambolled round her . 
A short , joyous bark revealed the clue to the situation . 
Are those dogs ? he called weakly . 
My cousin Karl's dogs , yes , she answered that is his inn , over beyond the trees . 
I knew it was there , but I did not want to take you there he is always grasping with strangers . 
However , it grows too cold to remain in the train . 
Ah , ah , see what comes ! A whistle sounded , and a relief engine made its appearance , snorting its way sulkily through the snow . 
Abbleway did not have the opportunity for finding out whether Karl was really avaricious . 
THE LUMBER ROOM THE children were to be driven , as a special treat , to the sands at Jagborough . 
Nicholas was not to be of the party he was in disgrace . 
Only that morning he had refused to eat his wholesome bread and milk on the seemingly frivolous ground that there was a frog in it . 
So his boy cousin and girl cousin and his quite uninteresting younger brother were to be taken to Jagborough sands that afternoon and he was to stay at home . 
A few decent tears were looked for on the part of Nicholas when the moment for the departure of the expedition arrived . 
How she did howl , said Nicholas cheerfully , as the party drove off without any of the elation of high spirits that should have characterised it . 
She'll soon get over that , said the SOI DISANT aunt it will be a glorious afternoon for racing about over those beautiful sands . 
How they will enjoy themselves ! Bobby won't enjoy himself much , and he won't race much either , said Nicholas with a grim chuckle his boots are hurting him . 
Why didn't he tell me they were hurting ? asked the aunt with some asperity . 
He told you twice , but you weren't listening . 
You often don't listen when we tell you important things . 
You are not to go into the gooseberry garden , said the aunt , changing the subject . 
Why not ? demanded Nicholas . 
Because you are in disgrace , said the aunt loftily . 
Nicholas did not admit the flawlessness of the reasoning he felt perfectly capable of being in disgrace and in a gooseberry garden at the same moment . 
His face took on an expression of considerable obstinacy . 
She was a woman of few ideas , with immense powers of concentration . 
Having thoroughly confirmed and fortified her suspicions Nicholas slipped back into the house and rapidly put into execution a plan of action that had long germinated in his brain . 
By standing on a chair in the library one could reach a shelf on which reposed a fat , important looking key . 
The key turned stiffly in the lock , but it turned . 
The door opened , and Nicholas was in an unknown land , compared with which the gooseberry garden was a stale delight , a mere material pleasure . 
It came up to his expectations . 
In the first place it was large and dimly lit , one high window opening on to the forbidden garden being its only source of illumination . 
In the second place it was a storehouse of unimagined treasures . 
The aunt by assertion was one of those people who think that things spoil by use and consign them to dust and damp by way of preserving them . 
Such parts of the house as Nicholas knew best were rather bare and cheerless , but here there were wonderful things for the eye to feast on . 
First and foremost there was a piece of framed tapestry that was evidently meant to be a fire screen . 
Less promising in appearance was a large square book with plain black covers Nicholas peeped into it , and , behold , it was full of coloured pictures of birds . 
Nicholas , Nicholas ! she screamed , you are to come out of this at once . 
It's no use trying to hide there I can see you all the time . 
It was probably the first time for twenty years that anyone had smiled in that lumber room . 
Presently the angry repetitions of Nicholas' name gave way to a shriek , and a cry for somebody to come quickly . 
Nicholas shut the book , restored it carefully to its place in a corner , and shook some dust from a neighbouring pile of newspapers over it . 
Then he crept from the room , locked the door , and replaced the key exactly where he had found it . 
His aunt was still calling his name when he sauntered into the front garden . 
Who's calling ? he asked . 
Luckily there's no water in it , but the sides are slippery and I can't get out . 
Fetch the little ladder from under the cherry tree I was told I wasn't to go into the gooseberry garden , said Nicholas promptly . 
I told you not to , and now I tell you that you may , came the voice from the rain water tank , rather impatiently . 
Your voice doesn't sound like aunt's , objected Nicholas you may be the Evil One tempting me to be disobedient . 
Aunt often tells me that the Evil One tempts me and that I always yield . 
This time I'm not going to yield . 
Don't talk nonsense , said the prisoner in the tank go and fetch the ladder . 
Will there be strawberry jam for tea ? asked Nicholas innocently . 
Certainly there will be , said the aunt , privately resolving that Nicholas should have none of it . 
Now I know that you are the Evil One and not aunt , shouted Nicholas gleefully when we asked aunt for strawberry jam yesterday she said there wasn't any . 
He walked noisily away , and it was a kitchenmaid , in search of parsley , who eventually rescued the aunt from the rain water tank . 
Tea that evening was partaken of in a fearsome silence . 
The tightness of Bobby's boots had had disastrous effect on his temper the whole of the afternoon , and altogether the children could not have been said to have enjoyed themselves . 
The aunt maintained the frozen muteness of one who has suffered undignified and unmerited detention in a rain water tank for thirty five minutes . 
FUR YOU look worried , dear , said Eleanor . 
I am worried , admitted Suzanne not worried exactly , but anxious . 
You see , my birthday happens next week You lucky person , interrupted Eleanor my birthday doesn't come till the end of March . 
Well , old Bertram Kneyght is over in England just now from the Argentine . 
He's a kind of distant cousin of my mother's , and so enormously rich that we've never let the relationship drop out of sight . 
Even if we don't see him or hear from him for years he is always Cousin Bertram when he does turn up . 
Now I understand the anxiety , observed Eleanor . 
As a rule when one is confronted with a problem like that , said Suzanne , all one's ideas vanish one doesn't seem to have a desire in the world . 
Now it so happens that I have been very keen on a little Dresden figure that I saw somewhere in Kensington about thirty six shillings , quite beyond my means . 
I was very nearly describing the figure , and giving Bertram the address of the shop . 
And then it suddenly struck me that thirty six shillings was such a ridiculously inadequate sum for a man of his immense wealth to spend on a birthday present . 
He could give thirty six pounds as easily as you or I could buy a bunch of violets . 
I don't want to be greedy , of course , but I don't like being wasteful . 
The question is , said Eleanor , what are his ideas as to present giving ? Some of the wealthiest people have curiously cramped views on that subject . 
When people grow gradually rich their requirements and standard of living expand in proportion , while their present giving instincts often remain in the undeveloped condition of their earlier days . 
Something showy and not too expensive in a shop is their only conception of the ideal gift . 
I know , said Suzanne that is why it is so risky to be vague when one is giving indications of one's wants . 
He would be more likely to say 'She'll be going to lots of dances , a fan will be sure to be useful . 
Yes , and I've got tons of fans , so you see where the danger and anxiety lies . 
Now if there is one thing more than another that I really urgently want it is furs . 
I'm told that Davos is full of Russians , and they are sure to wear the most lovely sables and things . 
To be among people who are smothered in furs when one hasn't any oneself makes one want to break most of the Commandments . 
If it's furs that you're out for , said Eleanor , you will have to superintend the choice of them in person . 
You can't be sure that your cousin knows the difference between silver fox and ordinary squirrel . 
That takes him right past Goliath and Mastodon's . 
You can say you want to get a hair net or something . 
When we're safely there I can say 'I wish you'd tell me what you want for your birthday . 
Then you'll have everything ready to hand the rich cousin , the fur department , and the topic of birthday presents . 
It's a great idea , said Suzanne you really are a brick . 
Come round to morrow at twenty to three don't be late , we must carry out our ambush to the minute . 
At a few minutes to three the next afternoon the fur trappers walked warily towards the selected corner . 
In the near distance rose the colossal pile of Messrs . 
Goliath and Mastodon's famed establishment . 
The afternoon was brilliantly fine , exactly the sort of weather to tempt a gentleman of advancing years into the discreet exercise of a leisurely walk . 
Sorry , my dear , no can do , said Suzanne ordinary bridge at threepence a hundred , with such dreadfully slow players as your aunts , bores me to tears . 
I nearly go to sleep over it . 
But I most particularly want an opportunity to talk with Harry , urged Eleanor , an angry glint coming into her eyes . 
Sorry , anything to oblige , but not that , said Suzanne cheerfully the sacrifices of friendship were beautiful in her eyes as long as she was not asked to make them . 
Eleanor said nothing further on the subject , but the corners of her mouth rearranged themselves . 
The plate glass doors swung open and the trio plunged bravely into the jostling throng of buyers and loiterers . 
Is it always as full as this ? asked Bertram of Eleanor . 
More or less , and autumn sales are on just now , she replied . 
Now , perhaps you can advise me on that very point . 
I want to give Suzanne something , and I haven't the least idea what she wants . 
She's rather a problem , said Eleanor . 
She seems to have everything one can think of , lucky girl . 
A fan is always useful she'll be going to a lot of dances at Davos this winter . 
Yes , I should think a fan would please her more than anything . 
After our birthdays are over we inspect each other's muster of presents , and I always feel dreadfully humble . 
She gets such nice things , and I never have anything worth showing . 
Two years ago an uncle on my mother's side of the family , who had come into a small legacy , promised me a silver fox stole for my birthday . 
I can't tell you how excited I was about it , how I pictured myself showing it off to all my friends and enemies . 
Then just at that moment his wife died , and , of course , poor man , he could not be expected to think of birthday presents at such a time . 
He has lived abroad ever since , and I never got my fur . 
Do you know , to this day I can scarcely look at a silver fox pelt in a shop window or round anyone's neck without feeling ready to burst into tears . 
I suppose if I hadn't had the prospect of getting one I shouldn't feel that way . 
Look , there is the fan counter , on your left you can easily slip away in the crowd . 
Get her as nice a one as you can see she is such a dear , dear girl . 
Hullo , I thought I had lost you , said Suzanne , making her way through an obstructive knot of shoppers . 
Where is Bertram ? I got separated from him long ago . 
I thought he was on ahead with you , said Eleanor . 
We shall never find him in this crush . 
Which turned out to be a true prediction . 
All our trouble and forethought thrown away , said Suzanne sulkily , when they had pushed their way fruitlessly through half a dozen departments . 
I can't think why you didn't grab him by the arm , said Eleanor I would have if I'd known him longer , but I'd only just been introduced . 
It's nearly four now , we'd better have tea . 
Some days later Suzanne rang Eleanor up on the telephone . 
Thank you very much for the photograph frame . 
It was just what I wanted . 
I say , do you know what that Kneyght person has given me ? Just what you said he would a wretched fan . 
What ? Oh yes , quite a good enough fan in its way , but still . 
You must come and see what he's given me , came in Eleanor's voice over the 'phone . 
You ! Why should he give you anything ? Your cousin appears to be one of those rare people of wealth who take a pleasure in giving good presents , came the reply . 
I wondered why he was so anxious to know where she lived , snapped Suzanne to herself as she rang off . 
A cloud has arisen between the friendships of the two young women as far as Eleanor is concerned the cloud has a silver fox lining . 
THE PHILANTHROPIST AND THE HAPPY CAT JOCANTHA BESSBURY was in the mood to be serenely and graciously happy . 
Her world was a pleasant place , and it was wearing one of its pleasantest aspects . 
Both were excellent in their way , and Gregory was , in his way , an excellent husband . 
Jocantha rather suspected herself of making him a very charming wife , and more than suspected herself of having a first rate dressmaker . 
He lies there , purring and dreaming , shifting his limbs now and then in an ecstasy of cushioned comfort . 
Having delivered himself of this sage comment he lit another cigarette , bade Jocantha a playfully affectionate good bye , and departed into the outer world . 
Remember , dinner's a wee bit earlier to night , as we're going to the Haymarket , she called after him . 
Left to herself , Jocantha continued the process of looking at her life with placid , introspective eyes . 
If she had not everything she wanted in this world , at least she was very well pleased with what she had got . 
She was very well pleased , for instance , with the snuggery , which contrived somehow to be cosy and dainty and expensive all at once . 
The porcelain was rare and beautiful , the Chinese enamels took on wonderful tints in the firelight , the rugs and hangings led the eye through sumptuous harmonies of colouring . 
Then she went forth in search of a tea shop and philanthropic adventure , at about the same time that Attab sauntered into the garden with a mind attuned to sparrow stalking . 
The odds were enormously in favour of the supposition that she had never seen the Yellow Peacock obviously she supplied excellent material for Jocantha's first experiment in haphazard benefaction . 
Jocantha ordered some tea and a muffin , and then turned a friendly scrutiny on her neighbour with a view to catching her eye . 
At that precise moment the girl's face lit up with sudden pleasure , her eyes sparkled , a flush came into her cheeks , and she looked almost pretty . 
A young man , whom she greeted with an affectionate Hullo , Bertie , came up to her table and took his seat in a chair facing her . 
He was aware , of course , of his good looks , but with the shy self consciousness of the Anglo Saxon , not the blatant complacency of the Latin or Semite . 
He was obviously on terms of friendly intimacy with the girl he was talking to , probably they were drifting towards a formal engagement . 
Jocantha pictured the boy's home , in a rather narrow circle , with a tiresome mother who always wanted to know how and where he spent his evenings . 
Jocantha felt extremely sorry for him . 
She wondered if he had seen the Yellow Peacock the odds were enormously in favour of the supposition that he had not . 
If he was a nice boy and improved on acquaintance he could be given more theatre tickets , and perhaps asked to come one Sunday to tea at Chelsea . 
Altogether she was rather pleased when the girl looked at the clock and bade a friendly but hurried farewell to her companion . 
The laws of tea shop etiquette forbid that you should offer theatre tickets to a stranger without having first caught the stranger's eye . 
Jocantha went back to her house in Chelsea , which struck her for the first time as looking dull and over furnished . 
She had a resentful conviction that Gregory would be uninteresting at dinner , and that the play would be stupid after dinner . 
But then he had killed his sparrow . 
Why London and not Paris or Munich ? he had been asked by the curious . 
Thus it was that he came to select London as the scene of his great adventure . 
On the other hand , there was the ever imminent danger of entertaining , and snubbing , an angel unawares . 
As regards Knopfschrank's work , they did not lack opportunity for inspecting and appraising it . 
However resolutely he might hold himself aloof from the social life of his restaurant acquaintances , he was not minded to hide his artistic performances from their inquiring gaze . 
When the coffee stage was reached he would light a cigarette , draw the portfolio over to him , and begin to rummage among its contents . 
On the back of each sketch was marked in plain figures the announcement Price ten shillings . 
If his work was not obviously stamped with the hall mark of genius , at any rate it was remarkable for its choice of an unusual and unvarying theme . 
There were also photographs of the large canvas on which he had been engaged for some months , and which he was now endeavouring to sell to some enterprising dealer or adventurous amateur . 
The subject was Hyaenas asleep in Euston Station , a composition that left nothing to be desired in the way of suggesting unfathomed depths of desolation . 
We may all be cursing ourselves one of these days , said Mrs. Nougat Jones , for not having bought up his entire portfolio of sketches . 
At the same time , when there is so much real talent going about , one does not feel like planking down ten shillings for what looks like a bit of whimsical oddity . 
Whatever talent or genius the Pomeranian artist might possess , it certainly failed to receive commercial sanction . 
The portfolio remained bulky with unsold sketches , and the Euston Siesta , as the wits of the Nuremberg nicknamed the large canvas , was still in the market . 
On the rare occasions when he spoke of his own affairs it was observed that he began to talk more about Pomerania and less about the great world of art . 
It is a busy time there now with us , he said wistfully the schwines are driven out into the fields after harvest , and must be looked after . 
I could be helping to look after if I was there . 
Here it is difficult to live art is not appreciate . 
Why don't you go home on a visit ? some one asked tactfully . 
Ah , it cost money ! There is the ship passage to Stolpmunde , and there is money that I owe at my lodgings . 
Even here I owe a few schillings . 
Ten shillings is always a consideration , you know , to people who are not over well off . 
Perhaps if you were to ask six or seven shillings Once a peasant , always a peasant . 
The mere suggestion of a bargain to be struck brought a twinkle of awakened alertness into the artist's eyes , and hardened the lines of his mouth . 
Nine schilling nine pence each , he snapped , and seemed disappointed that Mrs. Nougat Jones did not pursue the subject further . 
He had evidently expected her to offer seven and fourpence . 
The weeks sped by , and Knopfschrank came more rarely to the restaurant in Owl Street , while his meals on those occasions became more and more meagre . 
He has evidently sold his masterpiece , whispered Sylvia Strubble to Mrs. Nougat Jones , who had come in late . 
Who has bought it ? she whispered back . 
Don't know he hasn't said anything yet , but it must be some American . 
It must be an American millionaire , and he's evidently got a very big price for it he's just beaming and chuckling with satisfaction . 
We must ask him who has bought it , said Mrs. Nougat Jones . 
Hush ! no , don't . 
Let's buy some of his sketches , quick , before we are supposed to know that he's famous otherwise he'll be doubling the prices . 
I am so glad he's had a success at last . 
I always believed in him , you know . 
A more ambitious picture , Wolves and wapiti fighting on the steps of the Athenaeum Club , found a purchaser at fifteen shillings . 
And now what are your plans ? asked a young man who contributed occasional paragraphs to an artistic weekly . 
I go back to Stolpmunde as soon as the ship sails , said the artist , and I do not return . 
But your work ? Your career as painter ? Ah , there is nossing in it . 
Till to day I have sold not one of my sketches . 
To night you have bought a few , because I am going away from you , but at other times , not one . 
But has not some American ? Ah , the rich American , chuckled the artist . 
He dash his car right into our herd of schwines as they were being driven out to the fields . 
Many of our best schwines he killed , but he paid all damages . 
When one is in a hurry one must pay what one is asked . 
God be thanked for rich Americans , who are always in a hurry to get somewhere else . 
My father and mother , they have now so plenty of money they send me some to pay my debts and come home . 
I start on Monday for Stolpmunde and I do not come back . 
But your picture , the hyaenas ? No good . 
It is too big to carry to Stolpmunde . 
In time he will be forgotten , but at present Knopfschrank is almost as sore a subject as Sledonti with some of the frequenters of the Nuremberg Restaurant , Owl Street , Soho . 
