Rank was unknown in Lakeside unconfessed , anyway everybody knew everybody and his dog , and a sociable friendliness was the prevailing atmosphere . 
Saladin Foster was book keeper in the principal store , and the only high salaried man of his profession in Lakeside . 
His wife , Electra , was a capable helpmeet , although like himself a dreamer of dreams and a private dabbler in romance . 
Saladin had less , by fifteen . 
She instituted a vegetable garden there , got it farmed on shares by the nearest neighbor , and made it pay her a hundred per cent . 
Seven years later she was out of debt and had several hundred dollars out earning its living . 
She had an independent income from safe investments of about a hundred dollars a year her children were growing in years and grace and she was a pleased and happy woman . 
Happy in her husband , happy in her children , and the husband and the children were happy in her . 
It is at this point that this history begins . 
The youngest girl , Clytemnestra called Clytie for short was eleven her sister , Gwendolen called Gwen for short was thirteen nice girls , and comely . 
The names betray the latent romance tinge in the parental blood , the parents' names indicate that the tinge was an inheritance . 
It was an affectionate family , hence all four of its members had pet names , Saladin's was a curious and unsexing one Sally and so was Electra's Aleck . 
CHAPTER II Now came great news ! Stunning news joyous news , in fact . 
It came from a neighboring state , where the family's only surviving relative lived . 
Sally had tried to make up to him once , by letter , in a bygone time , and had not made that mistake again . 
The bequest would be found in his will , and would be paid over . 
As soon as Aleck had partially recovered from the tremendous emotions created by the letter , she sent to the relative's habitat and subscribed for the local paper . 
Thir ty thousand dollars ! All day long the music of those inspiring words sang through those people's heads . 
From his marriage day forth , Aleck's grip had been upon the purse , and Sally had seldom known what it was to be privileged to squander a dime on non necessities . 
Thir ty thousand dollars ! the song went on and on . 
A vast sum , an unthinkable sum ! All day long Aleck was absorbed in planning how to invest it , Sally in planning how to spend it . 
There was no romance reading that night . 
The children took themselves away early , for their parents were silent , distraught , and strangely unentertaining . 
Two pencils had been busy during that hour note making in the way of plans . 
It was Sally who broke the stillness at last . 
Aleck responded with decision and composure Out of the CAPITAL ? Nothing of the kind . 
Not if it was a million ! Sally was deeply disappointed the glow went out of his face . 
Oh , Aleck ! he said , reproachfully . 
She said , with gentle persuasiveness We must not spend the capital , dear , it would not be wise . 
That is , a reasonable part . 
But the whole of the capital every penny of it must be put right to work , and kept at it . 
You see the reasonableness of that , don't you ? Why , ye s . 
But we'll have to wait so long . 
Six months before the first interest falls due . 
Longer , Aleck ? Why ? Don't they pay half yearly ? THAT kind of an investment yes but I sha'n't invest in that way . 
What way , then ? For big returns . 
What is it ? Coal . 
I mean to put in ten thousand . 
When we organize , we'll get three shares for one . 
By George , but it sounds good , Aleck ! Then the shares will be worth how much ? And when ? About a year . 
They'll pay ten per cent . 
half yearly , and be worth thirty thousand . 
I know all about it the advertisement is in the Cincinnati paper here . 
Land , thirty thousand for ten in a year ! Let's jam in the whole capital and pull out ninety ! I'll write and subscribe right now tomorrow it maybe too late . 
He was flying to the writing desk , but Aleck stopped him and put him back in his chair . 
She said Don't lose your head so . 
WE mustn't subscribe till we've got the money don't you know that ? Sally's excitement went down a degree or two , but he was not wholly appeased . 
Why , Aleck , we'll HAVE it , you know and so soon , too . 
He's probably out of his troubles before this it's a hundred to nothing he's selecting his brimstone shovel this very minute . 
Now , I think Aleck shuddered , and said How CAN you , Sally ! Don't talk in that way , it is perfectly scandalous . 
Oh , well , make it a halo , if you like , I don't care for his outfit , I was only just talking . 
But never mind about Tilbury , Aleck , let's talk about something worldly . 
It does seem to me that that mine is the place for the whole thirty . 
What's the objection ? All the eggs in one basket that's the objection . 
All right , if you say so . 
What about the other twenty ? What do you mean to do with that ? There is no hurry I am going to look around before I do anything with it . 
All right , if your mind's made up , signed Sally . 
He was deep in thought awhile , then he said There'll be twenty thousand profit coming from the ten a year from now . 
We can spend that , can we , Aleck ? Aleck shook her head . 
No , dear , she said , it won't sell high till we've had the first semi annual dividend . 
You can spend part of that . 
Oh , jolly ! oh , thanks ! and Sally jumped up and kissed his wife in gratitude . 
It'll be three thousand three whole thousand ! how much of it can we spend , Aleck ? Make it liberal ! do , dear , that's a good fellow . 
Aleck was pleased so pleased that she yielded to the pressure and conceded a sum which her judgment told her was a foolish extravagance a thousand dollars . 
Sally kissed her half a dozen times and even in that way could not express all his joy and thankfulness . 
The happy tears sprang to Sally's eyes , and he said Oh , I want to hug you ! And he did it . 
Then he got his notes and sat down and began to check off , for first purchase , the luxuries which he should earliest wish to secure . 
Horse buggy cutter lap robe patent leathers dog plug hat church pew stem winder new teeth SAY , Aleck ! Well ? Ciphering away , aren't you ? That's right . 
Have you got the twenty thousand invested yet ? No , there's no hurry about that I must look around first , and think . 
How are you getting along ? Where have you arrived ? Not very far two years or three . 
I've turned it over twice once in oil and once in wheat . 
Then they went up to bed , and in their delirium of bliss they forgot and left the candle burning in the parlor . 
They did not remember until they were undressed then Sally was for letting it burn he said they could afford it , if it was a thousand . 
But Aleck went down and put it out . 
CHAPTER III The little newspaper which Aleck had subscribed for was a Thursday sheet it would make the trip of five hundred miles from Tilbury's village and arrive on Saturday . 
Thus the Fosters had to wait almost a complete week to find out whether anything of a satisfactory nature had happened to him or not . 
It was a long , long week , and the strain was a heavy one . 
The pair could hardly have borne it if their minds had not had the relief of wholesome diversion . 
We have seen that they had that . 
The woman was piling up fortunes right along , the man was spending them spending all his wife would give him a chance at , at any rate . 
At last the Saturday came , and the WEEKLY SAGAMORE arrived . 
Mrs. Eversly Bennett was present . 
She was the Presbyterian parson's wife , and was working the Fosters for a charity . 
Talk now died a sudden death on the Foster side . 
Mrs. Bennett presently discovered that her hosts were not hearing a word she was saying so she got up , wondering and indignant , and went away . 
The moment she was out of the house , Aleck eagerly tore the wrapper from the paper , and her eyes and Sally's swept the columns for the death notices . 
Disappointment ! Tilbury was not anywhere mentioned . 
Aleck was a Christian from the cradle , and duty and the force of habit required her to go through the motions . 
She pulled herself together and said , with a pious two per cent . 
trade joyousness Let us be humbly thankful that he has been spared and Damn his treacherous hide , I wish Sally ! For shame ! I don't care ! retorted the angry man . 
It's the way YOU feel , and if you weren't so immorally pious you'd be honest and say so . 
Aleck said , with wounded dignity I do not see how you can say such unkind and unjust things . 
There is no such thing as immoral piety . 
You see , it's this way . 
If a person You have said quite enough , said Aleck , coldly let the subject be dropped . 
I'M willing , fervently responded Sally , wiping the sweat from his forehead and looking the thankfulness he had no words for . 
Then , musingly , he apologized to himself . 
I certainly held threes I KNOW it but I drew and didn't fill . 
That's where I'm so often weak in the game . 
If I had stood pat but I didn't . 
Confessedly defeated , he was properly tame now and subdued . 
Aleck forgave him with her eyes . 
The grand interest , the supreme interest , came instantly to the front again nothing could keep it in the background many minutes on a stretch . 
The couple took up the puzzle of the absence of Tilbury's death notice . 
There was something sad about it , something even a little unfair , maybe , but there it was , and had to be put up with . 
They were agreed as to that . 
The pair must wait for next week's paper Tilbury had evidently postponed . 
That was their thought and their decision . 
So they put the subject away and went about their affairs again with as good heart as they could . 
Now , if they had but known it , they had been wronging Tilbury all the time . 
Tilbury had kept faith , kept it to the letter he was dead , he had died to schedule . 
On its way to the standing galley Tilbury's notice got pied . 
Otherwise it would have gone into some future edition , for WEEKLY SAGAMORES do not waste live matter , and in their galleys live matter is immortal , unless a pi accident intervenes . 
But a thing that gets pied is dead , and for such there is no resurrection its chance of seeing print is gone , forever and ever . 
CHAPTER IV Five weeks drifted tediously along . 
The SAGAMORE arrived regularly on the Saturdays , but never once contained a mention of Tilbury Foster . 
Pride had forced him to say something , and as he could not think of any rational thing to say he flung that out . 
Then he stole a base as he called it that is , slipped from the presence , to keep from being brayed in his wife's discussion mortar . 
Six months came and went . 
The SAGAMORE was still silent about Tilbury . 
Meantime , Sally had several times thrown out a feeler that is , a hint that he would like to know . 
Aleck had ignored the hints . 
Sally now resolved to brace up and risk a frontal attack . 
So he squarely proposed to disguise himself and go to Tilbury's village and surreptitiously find out as to the prospects . 
Aleck put her foot on the dangerous project with energy and decision . 
You'll stay right where you are ! Why , Aleck , I could do it and not be found out I'm certain of it . 
Sally Foster , don't you know you would have to inquire around ? Of course , but what of it ? Nobody would suspect who I was . 
Oh , listen to the man ! Some day you've got to prove to the executors that you never inquired . 
What then ? He had forgotten that detail . 
He didn't reply there wasn't anything to say . 
Aleck added Now then , drop that notion out of your mind , and don't ever meddle with it again . 
Tilbury set that trap for you . 
Don't you know it's a trap ? He is on the watch , and fully expecting you to blunder into it . 
Well , he is going to be disappointed at least while I am on deck . 
Sally ! Well ? As long as you live , if it's a hundred years , don't you ever make an inquiry . 
Promise ! All right , with a sigh and reluctantly . 
Then Aleck softened and said Don't be impatient . 
We are prospering we can wait there is no hurry . 
Our small dead certain income increases all the time and as to futures , I have not made a mistake yet they are piling up by the thousands and tens of thousands . 
There is not another family in the state with such prospects as ours . 
Already we are beginning to roll in eventual wealth . 
You know that , don't you ? Yes , Aleck , it's certainly so . 
Then be grateful for what God is doing for us and stop worrying . 
You do not believe we could have achieved these prodigious results without His special help and guidance , do you ? Hesitatingly , N no , I suppose not . 
You keep me in constant dread . 
For you and for all of us . 
Once I had no fear of the thunder , but now when I hear it I Her voice broke , and she began to cry , and could not finish . 
And he was in earnest , and sorry for what he had done and ready for any sacrifice that could make up for it . 
And so , in privacy , he thought long and deeply over the matter , resolving to do what should seem best . 
It was easy to PROMISE reform indeed he had already promised it . 
Something surer and better must be devised and he devised it . 
At cost of precious money which he had long been saving up , shilling by shilling , he put a lightning rod on the house . 
At a subsequent time he relapsed . 
What miracles habit can do ! and how quickly and how easily habits are acquired both trifling habits and habits which profoundly change us . 
By and by Aleck subscribed to a Chicago daily and for the WALL STREET POINTER . 
With an eye single to finance she studied these as diligently all the week as she studied her Bible Sundays . 
He was proud of her nerve and daring in exploiting worldly stocks , and just as proud of her conservative caution in working her spiritual deals . 
It took but a very few months to educate Aleck's imagination and Sally's . 
Each day's training added something to the spread and effectiveness of the two machines . 
In the beginning , Aleck had given the coal speculation a twelvemonth in which to materialize , and had been loath to grant that this term might possibly be shortened by nine months . 
But that was the feeble work , the nursery work , of a financial fancy that had had no teaching , no experience , no practice . 
These aids soon came , then that nine months vanished , and the imaginary ten thousand dollar investment came marching home with three hundred per cent . 
profit on its back ! It was a great day for the pair of Fosters . 
They were speechless for joy . 
She said forty thousand dollars' profit was enough . 
The sale was made on the very day that the coal venture had returned with its rich freight . 
As I have said , the couple were speechless . 
they sat dazed and blissful that night , trying to realize that they were actually worth a hundred thousand dollars in clean , imaginary cash . 
Indeed it was a memorable night . 
Gradually the realization that they were rich sank securely home into the souls of the pair , then they began to place the money . 
And we should have seen other things , too among them the buggy , the lap robe , the stove pipe hat , and so on . 
Before the couple went to bed , that first night that they were rich , they had decided that they must celebrate . 
They must give a party that was the idea . 
But how to explain it to the daughters and the neighbors ? They could not expose the fact that they were rich . 
Sally was willing , even anxious , to do it but Aleck kept her head and would not allow it . 
She said that although the money was as good as in , it would be as well to wait until it was actually in . 
On that policy she took her stand , and would not budge . 
The great secret must be kept , she said kept from the daughters and everybody else . 
They must celebrate , they were determined to celebrate , but since the secret must be kept , what could they celebrate ? No birthdays were due for three months . 
But at last he hit it just by sheer inspiration , as it seemed to him and all their troubles were gone in a moment they would celebrate the Discovery of America . 
A splendid idea ! Aleck was almost too proud of Sally for words she said SHE never would have thought of it . 
CHAPTER V The celebration went off well . 
The friends were all present , both the young and the old . 
Among the young were Flossie and Gracie Peanut and their brother Adelbert , who was a rising young journeyman tinner , also Hosannah Dilkins , Jr . 
, journeyman plasterer , just out of his apprenticeship . 
For many months Adelbert and Hosannah had been showing interest in Gwendolen and Clytemnestra Foster , and the parents of the girls had noticed this with private satisfaction . 
But they suddenly realized now that that feeling had passed . 
They recognized that the changed financial conditions had raised up a social bar between their daughters and the young mechanics . 
The daughters could now look higher and must . 
They need marry nothing below the grade of lawyer or merchant poppa and momma would take care of this there must be no m'esalliances . 
However , these thinkings and projects of their were private , and did not show on the surface , and therefore threw no shadow upon the celebration . 
What showed upon the surface was a serene and lofty contentment and a dignity of carriage and gravity of deportment which compelled the admiration and likewise the wonder of the company . 
All noticed it and all commented upon it , but none was able to divine the secret of it . 
It was a marvel and a mystery . 
Three several persons remarked , without suspecting what clever shots they were making It's as if they'd come into property . 
That was just it , indeed . 
But this mother was different . 
She said nothing to any of the young people concerned , nor to any one else except Sally . 
He listened to her and understood understood and admired . 
He said I get the idea . 
It's wisdom , Aleck , solid wisdom , and sound as a nut . 
Who's your fish ? Have you nominated him yet ? No , she hadn't . 
They must look the market over which they did . 
To start with , they considered and discussed Brandish , rising young lawyer , and Fulton , rising young dentist . 
Sally must invite them to dinner . 
But not right away there was no hurry , Aleck said . 
Keep an eye on the pair , and wait nothing would be lost by going slowly in so important a matter . 
It turned out that this was wisdom , too for inside of three weeks Aleck made a wonderful strike which swelled her imaginary hundred thousand to four hundred thousand of the same quality . 
She and Sally were in the clouds that evening . 
For the first time they introduced champagne at dinner . 
Not real champagne , but plenty real enough for the amount of imagination expended on it . 
It was Sally that did it , and Aleck weakly submitted . 
But there is was the pride of riches was beginning its disintegrating work . 
More than four hundred thousand dollars to the good . 
They took up the matrimonial matter again . 
Neither the dentist nor the lawyer was mentioned there was no occasion , they were out of the running . 
They discussed the son of the pork packer and the son of the village banker . 
But finally , as in the previous case , they concluded to wait and think , and go cautiously and sure . 
Luck came their way again . 
Aleck , ever watchful saw a great and risky chance , and took a daring flyer . 
A time of trembling , of doubt , of awful uneasiness followed , for non success meant absolute ruin and nothing short of it . 
They shelved the pork packer's son and the banker's son , and sat down to consider the Governor's son and the son of the Congressman . 
CHAPTER VI It were a weariness to follow in detail the leaps and bounds the Foster fictitious finances took from this time forth . 
It was marvelous , it was dizzying , it was dazzling . 
Everything Aleck touched turned to fairy gold , and heaped itself glittering toward the firmament . 
Millions upon millions poured in , and still the mighty stream flowed thundering along , still its vast volume increased . 
Five millions ten millions twenty thirty was there never to be an end ? Two years swept by in a splendid delirium , the intoxicated Fosters scarcely noticing the flight of time . 
The three hundred double itself then doubled again and yet again and yet once more . 
Twenty four hundred millions ! The business was getting a little confused . 
It was necessary to take an account of stock , and straighten it out . 
The Fosters knew there was one way to get the ten hours , and only one . 
Both were ashamed to name it each waited for the other to do it . 
Finally Sally said Somebody's got to give in . 
Consider that I've named it never mind pronouncing it out aloud . 
Aleck colored , but was grateful . 
Without further remark , they fell . 
Fell , and broke the Sabbath . 
For that was their only free ten hour stretch . 
It was but another step in the downward path . 
Vast wealth has temptations which fatally and surely undermine the moral structure of persons not habituated to its possession . 
They pulled down the shades and broke the Sabbath . 
With hard and patient labor they overhauled their holdings and listed them . 
Twenty four hundred millions , and all safely planted in Good Things , gilt edged and interest bearing . 
Income , , , a year . 
Aleck fetched a long purr of soft delight , and said Is it enough ? It is , Aleck . 
What shall we do ? Stand pat . 
Retire from business ? That's it . 
The good work is finished we will take a long rest and enjoy the money . 
Good ! Aleck ! Yes , dear ? How much of the income can we spend ? The whole of it . 
It seemed to her husband that a ton of chains fell from his limbs . 
He did not say a word he was happy beyond the power of speech . 
After that , they broke the Sabbaths right along as fast as they turned up . 
It is the first wrong step that counts . 
Every Sunday they put in the whole day , after morning service , on inventions inventions of ways to spend the money . 
Later the names gradually lost sharpness of outline , and eventually faded into sundries , thus becoming entirely but safely undescriptive . 
The placing of these millions added seriously and most uncomfortably to the family expenses in tallow candles . 
For a while Aleck was worried . 
Then , after a little , she ceased to worry , for the occasion of it was gone . 
She was pained , she was grieved , she was ashamed but she said nothing , and so became an accessory . 
Sally was taking candles he was robbing the store . 
Vast wealth , to the person unaccustomed to it , is a bane it eats into the flesh and bone of his morals . 
When the Fosters were poor , they could have been trusted with untold candles . 
But now they but let us not dwell upon it . 
From candles to apples is but a step Sally got to taking apples then soap then maple sugar then canned goods then crockery . 
Six days of sordid and plodding fact life at home on the ragged edge of Lakeside and straitened means , the seventh in Fairlyand such had been their program and their habit . 
In their sternly restricted fact life they remained as of old plodding , diligent , careful , practical , economical . 
They stuck loyally to the little Presbyterian Church , and labored faithfully in its interests and stood by its high and tough doctrines with all their mental and spiritual energies . 
But in their dream life they obeyed the invitations of their fancies , whatever they might be , and howsoever the fancies might change . 
Aleck's fancies were not very capricious , and not frequent , but Sally's scattered a good deal . 
But these excursions were a nothing to Sally's . 
His dream life was a glowing and continuous and persistent excitement , and he kept every part of it fresh and sparkling by frequent changes , the religious part along with the rest . 
He worked his religions hard , and changed them with his shirt . 
The liberal spendings of the Fosters upon their fancies began early in their prosperities , and grew in prodigality step by step with their advancing fortunes . 
In time they became truly enormous . 
This rude and unfeeling language hurt Aleck to the heart , and she went from the presence crying . 
That spectacle went to his own heart , and in his pain and shame he would have given worlds to have those unkind words back . 
She had uttered no syllable of reproach and that cut him . 
He could go no farther he could not bear the rest . 
And that is what he did . 
He told her All and wept upon her bosom wept , and moaned , and begged for her forgiveness . 
CHAPTER VII One Sunday afternoon some time after this they were sailing the summer seas in their dream yacht , and reclining in lazy luxury under the awning of the after deck . 
There was silence , for each was busy with his own thoughts . 
These seasons of silence had insensibly been growing more and more frequent of late the old nearness and cordiality were waning . 
that her husband was becoming a bloated and repulsive Thing . 
She could not close her eyes to this , and in these days she no longer looked at him , Sundays , when she could help it . 
But she was she herself without blemish ? Alas , she knew she was not . 
She was keeping a secret from him , she was acting dishonorably toward him , and many a pang it was costing her . 
SHE WAS BREAKING THE COMPACT , AND CONCEALING IT FROM HIM . 
She was grateful to have that persecuting subject from her thoughts , and she answered , with much of the old time tenderness in her tone Yes , dear . 
Do you know , Aleck , I think we are making a mistake that is , you are . 
I mean about the marriage business . 
He sat up , fat and froggy and benevolent , like a bronze Buddha , and grew earnest . 
Consider it's more than five years . 
You've continued the same policy from the start with every rise , always holding on for five points higher . 
Always when I think we are going to have some weddings , you see a bigger thing ahead , and I undergo another disappointment . 
I think you are too hard to please . 
Some day we'll get left . 
First , we turned down the dentist and the lawyer . 
That was all right it was sound . 
Next , we turned down the banker's son and the pork butcher's heir right again , and sound . 
Next , we turned down the Congressman's son and the Governor's right as a trivet , I confess it . 
Next the Senator's son and the son of the Vice President of the United States perfectly right , there's no permanency about those little distinctions . 
Then you went for the aristocracy and I thought we had struck oil at last yes . 
But no , along comes a pair a real aristocrats from Europe , and straightway you throw over the half breeds . 
NOW , Aleck , cash in ! you've played the limit . 
You've got a job lot of four dukes under the hammer of four nationalities all sound in the wind and limb and pedigree , all bankrupt and in debt up to the ears . 
They come high , but we can afford it . 
By George ! he said , fervently , Aleck , you ARE great the greatest woman in the whole earth ! I can't ever learn the whole size of you . 
I can't ever learn the immeasurable deeps of you . 
Here I've been considering myself qualified to criticize your game . 
I ! Why , if I had stopped to think , I'd have known you had a lone hand up your sleeve . 
Now , dear heart , I'm all red hot impatience tell me about it ! The flattered and happy woman put her lips to his ear and whispered a princely name . 
It made him catch his breath , it lit his face with exultation . 
Land ! he said , it's a stunning catch ! He's got a gambling hall , and a graveyard , and a bishop , and a cathedral all his very own . 
And all gilt edged five hundred per cent . 
stock , every detail of it the tidiest little property in Europe . 
and that graveyard it's the selectest in the world none but suicides admitted YES , sir , and the free list suspended , too , ALL the time . 
There isn't much land in the principality , but there's enough eight hundred acres in the graveyard and forty two outside . 
It's a SOVEREIGNTY that's the main thing LAND'S nothing . 
There's plenty land , Sahara's drugged with it . 
Aleck glowed she was profoundly happy . 
it's a grand catch , Aleck . 
He's corralled , is he ? Can't get away ? You didn't take him on a margin ? No. Trust me for that . 
He's not a liability , he's an asset . 
So is the other one . 
Who is it , Aleck ? His Royal Highness Sigismund Siegfriend Lauenfeld Dinkelspiel Schwartzenberg Blutwurst , Hereditary Grant Duke of Katzenyammer . 
No ! You can't mean it ! It's as true as I'm sitting here , I give you my word , she answered . 
I know that farm , I've been there . 
It's got a rope walk and a candle factory and an army . 
Three soldier and a horse . 
Aleck , it's been a long wait , and full of heartbreak and hope deferred , but God knows I am happy now . 
Happy , and grateful to you , my own , who have done it all . 
When is it to be ? Next Sunday . 
And we'll want to do these weddings up in the very regalest style that's going . 
It's properly due to the royal quality of the parties of the first part . 
Now as I understand it , there is only one kind of marriage that is sacred to royalty , exclusive to royalty it's the morganatic . 
What do they call it that for , Sally ? I don't know but anyway it's royal , and royal only . 
Then we will insist upon it . 
More I will compel it . 
It is morganatic marriage or none . 
That settles it ! said Sally , rubbing his hands with delight . 
And it will be the very first in America . 
Aleck , it will make Newport sick . 
CHAPTER VIII During three days the couple walked upon air , with their heads in the clouds . 
Everybody was stunned and amazed , and went about muttering , What CAN be the matter with the Fosters ? Three days . 
Then came events ! Things had taken a happy turn , and for forty eight hours Aleck's imaginary corner had been booming . 
Up up still up ! Cost point was passed . 
Still up and up and up ! Cost point was passed . 
It was a fatal resolve . 
Then , and not till then , the man in her was vanished , and the woman in her resumed sway . 
She put her arms about her husband's neck and wept , saying I am to blame , do not forgive me , I cannot bear it . 
We are paupers ! Paupers , and I am so miserable . 
The weddings will never come off all that is past we could not even buy the dentist , now . 
Aleck saw how true they were , and their influence was electric her tears ceased to flow , and her great spirit rose to its full stature again . 
With flashing eye and grateful heart , and with hand uplifted in pledge and prophecy , she said Now and here I proclaim But she was interrupted by a visitor . 
It was the editor and proprietor of the SAGAMORE . 
No visitor could have been more welcome . 
He would know all about Uncle Tilbury and what his chances might be getting to be , cemeterywards . 
They could , of course , ask no questions , for that would squelch the bequest , but they could nibble around on the edge of the subject and hope for results . 
The scheme did not work . 
The obtuse editor did not know he was being nibbled at but at last , chance accomplished what art had failed in . 
In illustration of something under discussion which required the help of metaphor , the editor said Land , it's a tough as Tilbury Foster ! as WE say . 
It was sudden , and it made the Fosters jump . 
The editor noticed , and said , apologetically No harm intended , I assure you . 
It's just a saying just a joke , you know nothing of it . 
The editor was thankful , and resumed his composure . 
Sally said , non committally and tentatively Ah , well , such is life , and none can escape not even the rich are spared . 
If you are including Tilbury , said he , it don't apply . 
HE hadn't a cent the town had to bury him . 
The Fosters sat petrified for two minutes petrified and cold . 
He hadn't anything to leave but a wheelbarrow , and he left that to me . 
It hadn't any wheel , and wasn't any good . 
Still , it was something , and so , to square up , I scribbled off a sort of a little obituarial send off for him , but it got crowded out . 
The Fosters were not listening their cup was full , it could contain no more . 
They sat with bowed heads , dead to all things but the ache at their hearts . 
Still they sat there , bowed , motionless , silent , the visitor long ago gone , they unaware . 
At intervals they lapsed into silences , leaving a sentence unfinished , seemingly either unaware of it or losing their way . 
They lived yet two years , in mental night , always brooding , steeped in vague regrets and melancholy dreams , never speaking then release came to both on the same day . 
Toward the end the darkness lifted from Sally's ruined mind for a moment , and he said Vast wealth , acquired by sudden and unwholesome means , is a snare . 
It did us no good , transient were its feverish pleasures yet for its sake we threw away our sweet and simple and happy life let others take warning by us . 
He had his desire with base and cunning calculation he left us but thirty thousand , knowing we would try to increase it , and ruin our life and break our hearts . 
Bernard , my mother was a collie , but I am a Presbyterian . 
This is what my mother told me , I do not know these nice distinctions myself . 
To me they are only fine large words meaning nothing . 
My mother had a fondness for such she liked to say them , and see other dogs look surprised and envious , as wondering how she got so much education . 
If there was a stranger he was nearly sure to be suspicious , and when he got his breath again he would ask her what it meant . 
And she always told him . 
The others were always waiting for this , and glad of it and proud of her , for they knew what was going to happen , because they had had experience . 
And it was the same with phrases . 
Yes , she was a daisy ! She got so she wasn't afraid of anything , she had such confidence in the ignorance of those creatures . 
You can see by these things that she was of a rather vain and frivolous character still , she had virtues , and enough to make up , I think . 
And she taught us not by words only , but by example , and that is the best way and the surest and the most lasting . 
So , as you see , there was more to her than her education . 
CHAPTER II When I was well grown , at last , I was sold and taken away , and I never saw her again . 
One may see by this that she had a wise and thoughtful head , for all there was so much lightness and vanity in it . 
She got it out of a song and the Grays knew that song , and said it was a beautiful name . 
I do not know what the word means , but my mother would know how to use it and get effects . 
She would know how to depress a rat terrier with it and make a lap dog look sorry he came . 
But that is not the best one the best one was Laboratory . 
My mother could organize a Trust on that one that would skin the tax collars off the whole herd . 
The servants in our house were all kind to me and were fond of me , and so , as you see , mine was a pleasant life . 
There could not be a happier dog that I was , nor a gratefuler one . 
By and by came my little puppy , and then my cup was full , my happiness was perfect . 
It did seem to me that life was just too lovely to Then came the winter . 
One day I was standing a watch in the nursery . 
That is to say , I was asleep on the bed . 
The baby was asleep in the crib , which was alongside the bed , on the side next the fireplace . 
It was the kind of crib that has a lofty tent over it made of gauzy stuff that you can see through . 
The nurse was out , and we two sleepers were alone . 
A spark from the wood fire was shot out , and it lit on the slope of the tent . 
I managed to climb up there , then I searched my way through the dark among the piles of things , and hid in the secretest place I could find . 
But I could lick my leg , and that did some good . 
For half an hour there was a commotion downstairs , and shoutings , and rushing footsteps , and then there was quiet again . 
Quiet for some minutes , and that was grateful to my spirit , for then my fears began to go down and fears are worse than pains oh , much worse . 
Then came a sound that froze me . 
But at last it did , hours and hours after the vague twilight of the garret had long ago been blotted out by black darkness . 
Then in that blessed stillness my terrors fell little by little away , and I was at peace and slept . 
It was a good rest I had , but I woke before the twilight had come again . 
I was feeling fairly comfortable , and I could think out a plan now . 
I was feeling almost cheerful now then suddenly I thought Why , what would life be without my puppy ! That was despair . 
Then well , then the calling began again ! All my sorrows came back . 
I said to myself , the master will never forgive . 
They called and called days and nights , it seemed to me . 
So long that the hunger and thirst near drove me mad , and I recognized that I was getting very weak . 
When you are this way you sleep a great deal , and I did . 
The mother and Sadie and the servants why , they just seemed to worship me . 
Then it dropped down , presently , and its little velvet nose rested upon the floor , and it was still , and did not move any more . 
I think there is something terrible about this . 
And I am so weak since yesterday I cannot stand on my feet anymore . 
Those poor creatures ! They do not suspect . 
Their influence was effective in the house so effective that the mother and the daughter conformed to its moral and religious requirements cheerfully , contentedly , happily , unquestionably . 
To do this was become second nature to them . 
And so in this peaceful heaven there were no clashings , no irritations , no fault finding , no heart burnings . 
In it a lie had no place . 
In it a lie was unthinkable . 
In it speech was restricted to absolute truth , iron bound truth , implacable and uncompromising truth , let the resulting consequences be what they might . 
At last , one day , under stress of circumstances , the darling of the house sullied her lips with a lie and confessed it , with tears and self upbraidings . 
There are not any words that can paint the consternation of the aunts . 
It was as if the sky had crumpled up and collapsed and the earth had tumbled to ruin with a crash . 
The situation was new , unheard of , incredible they could not understand it , they did not know how to take hold of it , it approximately paralyzed speech . 
At length it was decided that the erring child must be taken to her mother , who was ill , and who ought to know what had happened . 
The three moved toward the sick room . 
At this time the doctor was approaching the house . 
He was still a good distance away , however . 
It was a slow and trying education , but it paid . 
He knew nothing about etiquette , and cared nothing about it in speech , manner , carriage , and conduct he was the reverse of conventional . 
Whom he loved he loved , and manifested it whom he didn't live he hated , and published it from the housetops . 
In his young days he had been a sailor , and the salt airs of all the seas blew from him yet . 
Of these two titles , the latter had the wider currency the enemy , being greatly in the majority , attended to that . 
Necessarily , such a man is impressionable , impulsive , emotional . 
This one was , and had no gift at hiding his feelings or if he had it he took no trouble to exercise it . 
He carried his soul's prevailing weather in his face , and when he entered a room the parasols or the umbrellas went up figuratively speaking according to the indications . 
When the soft light was in his eye it meant approval , and delivered a benediction when he came with a frown he lowered the temperature ten degrees . 
He was a well beloved man in the house of his friends , but sometimes a dreaded one . 
He had a deep affection for the Lester household and its several members returned this feeling with interest . 
They mourned over his kind of Christianity , and he frankly scoffed at theirs but both parties went on loving each other just the same . 
He was approaching the house out of the distance the aunts and the culprit were moving toward the sick chamber . 
CHAPTER III The three last named stood by the bed the aunts austere , the transgressor softly sobbing . 
Wait ! said Aunt Hannah , and put out her hand and stayed the girl from leaping into them . 
Helen , said the other aunt , impressively , tell your mother all . 
Purge your soul leave nothing unconfessed . 
If you had told a thousand lies There was a sound a warning the clearing of a throat . 
The aunts glanced up , and withered in their clothes there stood the doctor , his face a thunder cloud . 
Mother and child knew nothing of his presence they lay locked together , heart to heart , steeped in immeasurable content , dead to all things else . 
They came trembling to him , and stood humbly before him and waited . 
Now , then he said , good by , dear . 
Go to your room , and keep away from your mother , and behave yourself . 
But wait put out your tongue . 
There , that will do you're as sound as a nut ! He patted her cheek and added , Run along now I want to talk to these aunts . 
She went from the presence . 
His face clouded over again at once and as he sat down he said You too have been doing a lot of damage and maybe some good . 
Some good , yes such as it is . 
That woman's disease is typhoid ! You've brought it to a show up , I think , with your insanities , and that's a service such as it is . 
I hadn't been able to determine what it was before . 
With one impulse the old ladies sprang to their feet , quaking with terror . 
Sit down ! What are you proposing to do ? Do ? We must fly to her . 
We You'll do nothing of the kind you've done enough harm for one day . 
Do you want to squander all your capital of crimes and follies on a single deal ? Sit down , I tell you . 
I have arranged for her to sleep she needs it if you disturb her without my orders , I'll brain you if you've got the materials for it . 
They sat down , distressed and indignant , but obedient , under compulsion . 
He proceeded Now , then , I want this case explained . 
THEY wanted to explain it to me as if there hadn't been emotion or excitement enough already . 
The doctor came to their help . 
He said Begin , Hester . 
Fingering at the fringes of her shawl , and with lowered eyes , Hester said , timidly We should not have disobeyed for any ordinary cause , but this was vital . 
With a duty one has no choice one must put all lighter considerations aside and perform it . 
We were obliged to arraign her before her mother . 
She had told a lie . 
And so does everybody including you for that matter . 
The thing is impossible absolutely impossible . 
You know it yourselves both of you you know it perfectly well . 
Hannah came to her sister's rescue Hester didn't mean that it was that kind of a lie , and it wasn't . 
But it was a lie . 
The Only Christian fidgeted impatiently in his chair . 
He went to attack this proposition , but he did not quite know how or where to begin . 
The doctor struggled in silence awhile with this situation then he asked Not even to save him from bitter pain and misery and grief ? No. Not even to save his life . 
Then he asked , roughly Is such a soul as that WORTH saving ? He rose up , mumbling and grumbling , and started for the door , stumping vigorously along . 
They were hurt to the heart , poor old ladies , and said they could never forgive these injuries . 
Reform ! They kept repeating that word resentfully . 
Reform and learn to tell lies ! Time slipped along , and in due course a change came over their spirits . 
This changes the complexion of his spirits generally wholesomely . 
And we shall have it ! said Hester , with the tears running down her face . 
Amen , said Hannah , smiling approval and endorsement through the mist of moisture that blurred her glasses . 
The doctor knows us , and knows we will not disobey again and he will call no others . 
It is surely time for one of us to go to that room . 
What is keeping him ? Why doesn't he come and say so ? They caught the sound of his approaching step . 
He entered , sat down , and began to talk . 
Margaret is a sick woman , he said . 
She is still sleeping , but she will wake presently then one of you must go to her . 
She will be worse before she is better . 
Pretty soon a night and day watch must be set . 
How much of it can you two undertake ? All of it ! burst from both ladies at once . 
It was grand praise , golden praise , coming from such a source , and it took nearly all the resentment out of the aged twin's hearts . 
Look you ! keep a little watch on Helen she is sick , and is going to be sicker . 
The ladies looked a little surprised , and not credulous and Hester said How is that ? It isn't an hour since you said she was as sound as a nut . 
The doctor answered , tranquilly It was a lie . 
Which I should probably do if I were interested in saving my soul by such disreputable means . 
Come , let us reason together . 
In a word , to tell me a lie a silent lie . 
Moreover , a possibly harmful one . 
The twins colored , but did not speak . 
You not only tell myriads of silent lies , but you tell lies with your mouths you two . 
THAT is not so ! It is so . 
You never dream of uttering a harmful one . 
It was as unmitigated a lie as was ever uttered . 
Deny it , Hester with another lie . 
Hester replied with a toss of her head . 
Hester , speaking for both , said coldly We have lied we perceive it it will occur no more . 
To lie is a sin . 
We shall never tell another one of any kind whatsoever , even lies of courtesy or benevolence , to save any one a pang or a sorrow decreed for him by God . 
Ah , how soon you will fall ! In fact , you have fallen already for what you have just uttered is a lie . 
Reform ! One of you go to the sick room now . 
CHAPTER IV Twelve days later . 
Mother and child were lingering in the grip of the hideous disease . 
Of hope for either there was little . 
The aged sisters looked white and worn , but they would not give up their posts . 
Their hearts were breaking , poor old things , but their grit was steadfast and indestructible . 
All the twelve days the mother had pined for the child , and the child for the mother , but both knew that the prayer of these longings could not be granted . 
Hester told her the doctor had poo pooed the idea . 
That afternoon Helen had to take to her bed , ill . 
She grew worse during the night . 
In the morning her mother asked after her Is she well ? Hester turned cold she opened her lips , but the words refused to come . 
The sick woman put all her happy heart in her gratitude Thank God for those dear words ! Kiss me . 
How I worship you for saying them ! Hester told this incident to Hannah , who received it with a rebuking look , and said , coldly Sister , it was a lie . 
Hester's lips trembled piteously she choked down a sob , and said Oh , Hannah , it was a sin , but I could not help it . 
I could not endure the fright and the misery that were in her face . 
God will hold you to account for it . 
Oh , I know it , I know it , cried Hester , wringing her hands , but even if it were now , I could not help it . 
I know I should do it again . 
Then take my place with Helen in the morning . 
I will make the report myself . 
Hester clung to her sister , begging and imploring . 
Don't , Hannah , oh , don't you will kill her . 
I will at least speak the truth . 
In the morning she had a cruel report to bear to the mother , and she braced herself for the trial . 
When she returned from her mission , Hester was waiting , pale and trembling , in the hall . 
She whispered Oh , how did she take it that poor , desolate mother ? Hannah's eyes were swimming in tears . 
After that , the two knew the limit of their strength , and accepted their fate . 
They surrendered humbly , and abandoned themselves to the hard requirements of the situation . 
Then came a day when the strength was gone from the hand , and the mind wandered , and the tongue babbled pathetic incoherences . 
this was a sore dilemma for the poor aunts . 
There were no love notes for the mother . 
They did not know what to do . 
Hester began a carefully studied and plausible explanation , but lost the track of it and grew confused suspicion began to show in the mother's face , then alarm . 
Hester saw it , recognized the imminence of the danger , and descended to the emergency , pulling herself resolutely together and plucking victor from the open jaws of defeat . 
In a placid and convincing voice she said I thought it might distress you to know it , but Helen spent the night at the Sloanes' . 
Be sure she will write the moment she comes . 
How good you are , and how dear and thoughtful for us both ! Approve ? Why , I thank you with all my heart . 
My poor little exile ! Tell her I want her to have every pleasure she can I would not rob her of one . 
Only let her keep her health , that is all I ask . 
Don't let that suffer I could not bear it . 
How thankful I am that she escaped this infection and what a narrow risk she ran , Aunt Hester ! Think of that lovely face all dulled and burned with fever . 
I can't bear the thought of it . 
CHAPTER V After a little , both aunts were laboring upon a difficult and baffling work in Helen's chamber . 
Patiently and earnestly , with their stiff old fingers , they were trying to forge the required note . 
They made failure after failure , but they improved little by little all the time . 
The pity of it all , the pathetic humor of it , there was none to see they themselves were unconscious of it . 
Everybody is good to me , but I am so lonesome without you , dear mamma . 
The poor child , I know just how she feels . 
When I came away she was singing , 'Loch Lomond . 
The pathos of it ! It always moves me so when she sings that . 
How heartbreakingly beautiful it is when some youthful sorrow is brooding in her breast and she sings it for the mystic healing it brings . 
Aunt Hannah ? Dear Margaret ? I am very ill . 
Sometimes it comes over me that I shall never hear that dear voice again . 
Oh , don't don't , Margaret ! I can't bear it ! Margaret was moved and distressed , and said , gently There there let me put my arms around you . 
There put your cheek to mine . 
I will live if I can . 
Ah , what could she do without me ! . 
Does she often speak of me ? but I know she does . 
Oh , all the time all the time ! My sweet child ! She wrote the note the moment she came home ? Yes the first moment . 
She would not wait to take off her things . 
It is her dear , impulsive , affectionate way . 
I knew it without asking , but I wanted to hear you say it . 
The petted wife knows she is loved , but she makes her husband tell her so every day , just for the joy of hearing it . 
She used the pen this time . 
That is better the pencil marks could rub out , and I should grieve for that . 
Did you suggest that she use the pen ? Y no she it was her own idea . 
The mother looked her pleasure , and said I was hoping you would say that . 
There was never such a dear and thoughtful child ! . 
Aunt Hannah ? Dear Margaret ? Go and tell her I think of her all the time , and worship her . 
Why you are crying again . 
Don't be so worried about me , dear I think there is nothing to fear , yet . 
The grieving messenger carried her message , and piously delivered it to unheeding ears . 
I want her oh , I want her ! She was here a minute ago I did not see her go . 
Will she come ? will she come quickly ? will she come now ? . 
There are so many houses . 
and they oppress me so . 
and everything whirls and turns and whirls . 
At last came that kindly friend who brings healing and peace to all . 
The lights were burning low . 
The dying girl lay with closed lids , and unconscious , the drapery upon her breast faintly rising and falling as her wasting life ebbed away . 
At intervals a sigh or a muffled sob broke upon the stillness . 
Helen stirred her hands began to grope wistfully about as if they sought something she had been blind some hours . 
The end was come all knew it . 
Two hours later Hester made her report . 
The mother asked How is it with the child ? She is well . 
CHAPTER VII A sheaf of white crape and black was hung upon the door of the house , and there it swayed and rustled in the wind and whispered its tidings . 
At noon the preparation of the dead was finished , and in the coffin lay the fair young form , beautiful , and in the sweet face a great peace . 
Two mourners sat by it , grieving and worshipping Hannah and the black woman Tilly . 
Hester came , and she was trembling , for a great trouble was upon her spirit . 
She said She asks for a note . 
She had not thought of this it had seemed that that pathetic service was ended . 
But she realized now that that could not be . 
And she would find out . 
It would break her heart . 
She looked at the dead face , and her eyes filled . 
I will write it , she said . 
The closing line said Darling Mousie , dear sweet mother , we shall soon be together again . 
Is not that good news ? And it is true they all say it is true . 
The mother mourned , saying Poor child , how will she bear it when she knows ? I shall never see her again in life . 
It is hard , so hard . 
She does not suspect ? You guard her from that ? She thinks you will soon be well . 
How good you are , and careful , dear Aunt Hester ! None goes near herr who could carry the infection ? It would be a crime . 
But you SEE her ? With a distance between yes . 
Others one could not trust but you two guardian angels steel is not so true as you . 
Others would be unfaithful and many would deceive , and lie . 
Hester's eyes fell , and her poor old lips trembled . 
Within the hour , Hester , raining tears upon the dead face , performed her pathetic mission . 
CHAPTER VIII Another day dawned , and grew , and spread its sunshine in the earth . 
The deep note of a bell came moaning down the wind . 
Aunt Hannah , it is tolling . 
Some poor soul is at rest . 
As I shall be soon . 
We hoped you would not hear it , dear . 
It is a little company gathering , for for Helen's sake , poor little prisoner . 
There will be music and she loves it so . 
We thought you would not mind . 
Mind ? Oh no , no oh , give her everything her dear heart can desire . 
How good you two are to her , and how good to me ! God bless you both always ! After a listening pause How lovely ! It is her organ . 
Is she playing it herself , do you think ? Faint and rich and inspiring the chords floating to her ears on the still air . 
Yes , it is her touch , dear heart , I recognize it . 
Why it is a hymn ! and the sacredest of all , the most touching , the most consoling . 
It seems to open the gates of paradise to me . 
If I could die now . 
Faint and far the words rose out of the stillness Nearer , my God , to Thee , Nearer to Thee , E'en though it be a cross That raiseth me . 
With the closing of the hymn another soul passed to its rest , and they that had been one in life were not sundered in death . 
There they burn in the fires of hell from everlasting unto everlasting . 
Repent ! The bereaved fell upon their knees before him and clasped their hands and bowed their gray heads , adoring . 
But their tongues clove to the roof of their mouths , and they were dumb . 
Speak ! that I may bear the message to the chancery of heaven and bring again the decree from which there is no appeal . 
The strong could prevail , and so be saved , but we are lost . 
They lifted their heads in supplication . 
While they marveled and wept he came again and bending low , he whispered the decree . 
CHAPTER X Was it Heaven ? Or Hell ? A CURE FOR THE BLUES By courtesy of Mr. Cable I came into possession of a singular book eight or ten years ago . 
It is likely that mine is now the only copy in existence . 
Its title page , unabbreviated , reads as follows The Enemy Conquered or , Love Triumphant . 
By G. Ragsdale McClintock , author of 'An Address , etc . 
, delivered at Sunflower Hill , South Carolina , and member of the Yale Law School . 
New Haven published by T. H. Pease , Chapel Street , . 
No one can take up this book and lay it down again unread . 
Yet this work has been allowed to lie wholly neglected , unmentioned , and apparently unregretted , for nearly half a century . 
When read by the light of these helps to an understanding of the situation , the book is delicious profoundly and satisfyingly delicious . 
It was written for fame and money , as the author very frankly yes , and very hopefully , too , poor fellow says in his preface . 
In his long vanished day the Southern author had a passion for eloquence it was his pet , his darling . 
He would be eloquent , or perish . 
And he recognized only one kind of eloquence the lurid , the tempestuous , the volcanic . 
If he consumed his own fields and vineyards , that was a pity , yes but he would have his eruption at any cost . 
Please read it again contemplate it measure it walk around it climb up it try to get at an approximate realization of the size of it . 
We know that if it was loftily uttered , it got a noble burst of applause from the villagers yet there isn't a ray of sense in it , or meaning to it . 
McClintock finished his education at Yale in , and came to Hartford on a visit that same year . 
I have talked with men who at that time talked with him , and felt of him , and knew he was real . 
One needs to remember that fact and to keep fast hold of it it is the only way to keep McClintock's book from undermining one's faith in McClintock's actuality . 
He says it fills the breast with fond alarms , echoed by every rill . 
It sounds well enough , but it is not true . 
After the eulogy he takes up his real work and the novel begins . 
It begins in the woods , near the village of Sunflower Hill . 
With aspirations to conquer the enemy that would tarnish his name is merely a phrase flung in for the sake of the sound let it not mislead the reader . 
No one is trying to tarnish this person no one has thought of it . 
One doesn't know why it wasn't , nor how near it came to being complete , nor what was still wanting to round it up and make it so . 
Maybe it was the Indian but the book does not say . 
This of course made the youth a welcome guest , and gained him friends in whatever condition of his life he might be placed . 
The traveler observed that he was a well built figure which showed strength and grace in every movement . 
He accordingly addressed him in quite a gentlemanly manner , and inquired of him the way to the village . 
The youth looked somewhat amazed , bowed low , mused for a moment , and began My name is Roswell . 
McClintock is always McClintock , he is always consistent , his style is always his own style . 
He does not make the mistake of being relevant on one page and irrelevant on another he is irrelevant on all of them . 
He does not make the mistake of being lucid in one place and obscure in another he is obscure all the time . 
He does not make the mistake of slipping in a name here and there that is out of character with his work he always uses names that exactly and fantastically fit his lunatics . 
In the matter of undeviating consistency he stands alone in authorship . 
It is this that makes his style unique , and entitles it to a name of its own McClintockian . 
It is this that protects it from being mistaken for anybody else's . 
Uncredited quotations from other writers often leave a reader in doubt as to their authorship , but McClintock is safe from that accident an uncredited quotation from him would always be recognizable . 
The novel now arrives at the point where the Major goes home to see his father . 
When McClintock wrote this interview he probably believed it was pathetic . 
The south winds whistled through the woods , as the waters dashed against the banks , as rapid fire in the pent furnace roars . 
This brought him to remember while alone , that he quietly left behind the hospitality of a father's house , and gladly entered the world , with higher hopes than are often realized . 
I read another destiny in thy countenance I learn thy inclinations from the flame that has already kindled in my soul a strange sensation . 
I once thought not so . 
Our most innocent as well as our most lawful DESIRES must often be denied us , that we may learn to sacrifice them to a Higher will . 
Remembering such admonitions with gratitude , Elfonzo was immediately urged by the recollection of his father's family to keep moving . 
McClintock has a fine gift in the matter of surprises but as a rule they are not pleasant ones , they jar upon the feelings . 
His closing sentence in the last quotation is of that sort . 
It brings one down out of the tinted clouds in too sudden and collapsed a fashion . 
It incenses one against the author for a moment . 
But the feeling does not last . 
The master takes again in his hand that concord of sweet sounds of his , and one is reconciled , pacified . 
He entered its classic walls in the usual mode of southern manners . 
The artfulness of this man ! None knows so well as he how to pique the curiosity of the reader and how to disappoint it . 
The principal of the Institution begged him to be seated and listen to the recitations that were going on . 
He accordingly obeyed the request , and seemed to be much pleased . 
He said he had determined to become a student , if he could meet with his approbation . 
Sir , said he , I have spent much time in the world . 
I have traveled among the uncivilized inhabitants of America . 
I have met with friends , and combated with foes but none of these gratify my ambition , or decide what is to be my destiny . 
I see the learned world have an influence with the voice of the people themselves . 
The despoilers of the remotest kingdoms of the earth refer their differences to this class of persons . 
The instructor , who had met with many disappointments , knew how to feel for a stranger who had been thus turned upon the charities of an unfeeling community . 
He looked at him earnestly , and said Be of good cheer look forward , sir , to the high destination you may attain . 
Remember , the more elevated the mark at which you aim , the more sure , the more glorious , the more magnificent the prize . 
From wonder to wonder , his encouragement led the impatient listener . 
A strange nature bloomed before him giant streams promised him success gardens of hidden treasures opened to his view . 
All this , so vividly described , seemed to gain a new witchery from his glowing fancy . 
It seems to me that this situation is new in romance . 
I feel sure it has not been attempted before . 
Military celebrities have been disguised and set at lowly occupations for dramatic effect , but I think McClintock is the first to send one of them to school . 
In he entered the class , and made rapid progress in the English and Latin departments . 
He was aware of the pleasure that he had seen there . 
So one evening , as he was returning from his reading , he concluded he would pay a visit to this enchanting spot . 
Little did he think of witnessing a shadow of his former happiness , though no doubt he wished it might be so . 
He continued sauntering by the roadside , meditating on the past . 
The nearer he approached the spot , the more anxious he became . 
Nothing was wanting to complete her beauty . 
The tinge of the rose was in full bloom upon her cheek the charms of sensibility and tenderness were always her associates . 
In Ambulinia's bosom dwelt a noble soul one that never faded one that never was conquered . 
Ambulinia ! It can hardly be matched in fiction . 
The full name is Ambulinia Valeer . 
Marriage will presently round it out and perfect it . 
Then it will be Mrs. Ambulinia Valeer Elfonzo . 
Elfonzo was roused from his apparent reverie . 
His books no longer were his inseparable companions his thoughts arrayed themselves to encourage him to the field of victory . 
He endeavored to speak to his supposed Ambulinia , but his speech appeared not in words . 
No , his effort was a stream of fire , that kindled his soul into a flame of admiration , and carried his senses away captive . 
Ambulinia had disappeared , to make him more mindful of his duty . 
As she walked speedily away through the piny woods , she calmly echoed O ! Elfonzo , thou wilt now look from thy sunbeams . 
Thou shalt now walk in a new path perhaps thy way leads through darkness but fear not , the stars foretell happiness . 
To McClintock that jingling jumble of fine words meant something , no doubt , or seemed to mean something but it is useless for us to try to divine what it was . 
Ambulinia comes we don't know whence nor why she mysteriously intimates we don't know what and then she goes echoing away we don't know whither and down comes the curtain . 
McClintock's art is subtle McClintock's art is deep . 
Nothing could be more striking than the difference between the two . 
Nature seemed to have given the more tender soul to Elfonzo , and the stronger and more courageous to Ambulinia . 
He was a few years older than Ambulinia she had turned a little into her seventeenth . 
He had almost grown up in the Cherokee country , with the same equal proportions as one of the natives . 
At last we begin to get the Major's measure . 
We are able to put this and that casual fact together , and build the man up before our eyes , and look at him . 
And after we have got him built , we find him worth the trouble . 
The Major , indeed , has made up his mind to rise up and shake his faculties together , and to see if HE can't do that thing himself . 
But we must come to the feast again . 
Here is a courtship scene , down there in the romantic glades among the raccoons , alligators , and things , that has merit , peculiar literary merit . 
and the beginning of the third . 
Never mind the new personage , Leos , who is intruded upon us unheralded and unexplained . 
That is McClintock's way it is his habit it is a part of his genius he cannot help it he never interrupts the rush of his narrative to make introductions . 
After many efforts and struggles with his own person , with timid steps the Major approached the damsel , with the same caution as he would have done in a field of battle . 
Lady Ambulinia , said he , trembling , I have long desired a moment like this . 
I dare not let it escape . 
I fear the consequences yet I hope your indulgence will at least hear my petition . 
I know not the little arts of my sex . 
It is better to repent now , than to do it in a more solemn hour . 
Yes , I know what you would say . 
I know you have a costly gift for me the noblest that man can make YOUR HEART ! You should not offer it to one so unworthy . 
Notwithstanding all this , let me speak the emotions of an honest heart allow me to say in the fullness of my hopes that I anticipate better days . 
From your confession and indicative looks , I must be that person if so deceive not yourself . 
Elfonzo replied , Pardon me , my dear madam , for my frankness . 
I saw how Leos worshiped thee . 
I felt my own unworthiness . 
I began to KNOW JEALOUSLY , a strong guest indeed , in my bosom , yet I could see if I gained your admiration Leos was to be my rival . 
I entreat you to condescend a little , and be a man , and forget it all . 
When Homer describes the battle of the gods and noble men fighting with giants and dragons , they represent under this image our struggles with the delusions of our passions . 
You have exalted me , an unhappy girl , to the skies you have called me a saint , and portrayed in your imagination an angel in human form . 
Let her remain such to you , let her continue to be as you have supposed , and be assured that she will consider a share in your esteem as her highest treasure . 
Think not that I would allure you from the path in which your conscience leads you for you know I respect the conscience of others , as I would die for my own . 
Elfonzo , if I am worthy of thy love , let such conversation never again pass between us . 
Go , seek a nobler theme ! we will seek it in the stream of time , as the sun set in the Tigris . 
He ventured not to follow or detain her . 
Here he stood alone , gazing at the stars confounded as he was , here he stood . 
There seems to be no doubt about that . 
Nearly half of this delirious story has now been delivered to the reader . 
It seems a pity to reduce the other half to a cold synopsis . 
McClintock never wrote a line that was not precious he never wrote one that could be spared he never framed one from which a word could be removed without damage . 
Every sentence that this master has produced may be likened to a perfect set of teeth , white , uniform , beautiful . 
If you pull one , the charm is gone . 
Still , it is now necessary to begin to pull , and to keep it up for lack of space requires us to synopsize . 
We left Elfonzo standing there amazed . 
At what , we do not know . 
Not at the girl's speech . 
He resumed his bench in school , and reasonably progressed in his education . 
His heart was heavy , but he went into society , and sought surcease of sorrow in its light distractions . 
He made himself popular with his violin , which seemed to have a thousand chords more symphonious than the Muses of Apollo , and more enchanting than the ghost of the Hills . 
This is obscure , but let it go . 
During this interval Leos did some unencouraged courting , but at last , choked by his undertaking , he desisted . 
Presently Elfonzo again wends his way to the stately walls and new built village . 
He goes to the house of his beloved she opens the door herself . 
To my surprise for Ambulinia's heart had still seemed free at the time of their last interview love beamed from the girl's eyes . 
One sees that Elfonzo was surprised , too for when he caught that light , a halloo of smothered shouts ran through every vein . 
A neat figure a very neat figure , indeed ! Then he kissed her . 
They went into the parlor . 
The girl said it was safe , for her parents were abed , and would never know . 
Then we have this fine picture flung upon the canvas with hardly an effort , as you will notice . 
There is nothing of interest in the couple's interview . 
But this is a sham , and pretty shallow . 
McClintock merely wants a pretext to drag in a plagiarism of his upon a scene or two in Othello . 
The lovers went to the play . 
Elfonzo was one of the fiddlers . 
He and Ambulinia must not been seen together , lest trouble follow with the girl's malignant father we are made to understand that clearly . 
So the two sit together in the orchestra , in the midst of the musicians . 
This does not seem to be good art . 
There can be no doubt , it seems to me , that this is bad art . 
Of course , one of the first things that catches his eye is the maddening spectacle of Ambulinia leaning upon Elfonzo's chair . 
This poor girl does not seem to understand even the rudiments of concealment . 
But she is in her seventeenth , as the author phrases it , and that is her justification . 
Leos meditates , constructs a plan with personal violence as a basis , of course . 
It was their way down there . 
It is a good plain plan , without any imagination in it . 
At this point McClintock puts in the whole of his curious play which we skip . 
The bitter father and the distressed lovers write the letters . 
They are idiotically planned , and they fail . 
Then we have several pages of romantic powwow and confusion dignifying nothing . 
Another elopement is planned it is to take place on Sunday , when everybody is at church . 
But the hero cannot keep the secret he tells everybody . 
Another author would have found another instrument when he decided to defeat this elopement but that is not McClintock's way . 
He uses the person that is nearest at hand . 
The evasion failed , of course . 
Ambulinia , in her flight , takes refuge in a neighbor's house . 
Her father drags her home . 
The villagers gather , attracted by the racket . 
Elfonzo was moved at this sight . 
Ride on the wings of the wind ! Turn thy force loose like a tempest , and roll on thy army like a whirlwind , over this mountain of trouble and confusion . 
Elfonzo called out with a loud voice , My God , can I stand this ! arouse up , I beseech you , and put an end to this tyranny . 
Come , my brave boys , said he , are you ready to go forth to your duty ? They stood around him . 
But God forbid that our fame should soar on the blood of the slumberer . 
Mr. Valeer stands at his door with the frown of a demon upon his brow , with his dangerous weapon ready to strike the first man who should enter his door . 
Who will arise and go forward through blood and carnage to the rescue of my Ambulinia ? said Elfonzo . 
All , exclaimed the multitude and onward they went , with their implements of battle . 
Others , of a more timid nature , stood among the distant hills to see the result of the contest . 
It will hardly be believed that after all this thunder and lightning not a drop of rain fell but such is the fact . 
This is the first time this has happened in romantic literature . 
Everything in this book is original there is nothing hackneyed about it anywhere . 
Always , in other romances , when you find the author leading up to a climax , you know what is going to happen . 
But in this book it is different the thing which seems inevitable and unavoidable never happens it is circumvented by the art of the author every time . 
We have now arrived at the end . 
But it is not exciting . 
McClintock thinks it is but it isn't . 
One day Elfonzo sent Ambulinia another note a note proposing elopement No. . 
This time the plan is admirable admirable , sagacious , ingenious , imaginative , deep oh , everything , and perfectly easy . 
One wonders why it was never thought of before . 
The invention of this plan overstrained the author that is plain , for he straightway shows failing powers . 
The details of the plan are not many or elaborate . 
And away she ran to the sacred grove , surrounded with glittering pearls , that indicated her coming . 
Elfonzo hails her with his silver bow and his golden harp . 
The meet Ambulinia's countenance brightens Elfonzo leads up the winged steed . 
Mount , said he , ye true hearted , ye fearless soul the day is ours . 
Lend thy aid , ye strong winds , they exclaimed , ye moon , ye sun , and all ye fair host of heaven , witness the enemy conquered . 
Hold , said Elfonzo , thy dashing steed . 
Ride on , said Ambulinia , the voice of thunder is behind us . 
There is but one Homer , there is but one Shakespeare , there is but one McClintock and his immortal book is before you . 
Homer could not have written this book , Shakespeare could not have written it , I could not have done it myself . 
There is nothing just like it in the literature of any country or of any epoch . 
It stands alone it is monumental . 
It adds G. Ragsdale McClintock's to the sum of the republic's imperishable names . 
The name here given is a substitute for the one actually attached to the pamphlet . 
Further on it will be seen that he is a country expert on the fiddle , and has a three township fame . 
THE CURIOUS BOOK Complete The foregoing review of the great work of G. Ragsdale McClintock is liberally illuminated with sample extracts , but these cannot appease the appetite . 
Only the complete book , unabridged , can do that . 
Therefore it is here printed . 
Many have been the themes upon which writers and public speakers have dwelt with intense and increasing interest . 
Among these delightful themes stands that of woman , the balm to all our sighs and disappointments , and the most pre eminent of all other topics . 
Here the poet and orator have stood and gazed with wonder and with admiration they have dwelt upon her innocence , the ornament of all her virtues . 
First viewing her external charms , such as set forth in her form and benevolent countenance , and then passing to the deep hidden springs of loveliness and disinterested devotion . 
In every clime , and in every age , she has been the pride of her NATION . 
Her watchfulness is untiring she who guarded the sepulcher was the first to approach it , and the last to depart from its awful yet sublime scene . 
Even here , in this highly favored land , we look to her for the security of our institutions , and for our future greatness as a nation . 
But , strange as it may appear , woman's charms and virtues are but slightly appreciated by thousands . 
Often does she unfold herself in all her fascinating loveliness , presenting the most captivating charms yet we find man frequently treats such purity of purpose with indifference . 
Whenever the billows of adversity and the tumultuous waves of trouble beat high , her smiles subdue their fury . 
When darkness would obscure his mind , and a thick cloud of gloom would bewilder its operations , her intelligent eye darts a ray of streaming light into his heart . 
Leaving this point , to notice another prominent consideration , which is generally one of great moment and of vital importance . 
Invariably she is firm and steady in all her pursuits and aims . 
A more genuine principle is not to be found in the most determined , resolute heart of man . 
It is a noble characteristic and is worthy of imitation of any age . 
And when we look at it in one particular aspect , it is still magnified , and grows brighter and brighter the more we reflect upon its eternal duration . 
I mean that disposition in woman which enables her , in sorrow , in grief , and in distress , to bear all with enduring patience . 
This she has done , and can and will do , amid the din of war and clash of arms . 
Scenes and occurrences which , to every appearance , are calculated to rend the heart with the profoundest emotions of trouble , do not fetter that exalted principle imbued in her very nature . 
Woman's affections are deep , consequently her troubles may be made to sink deep . 
The deep recesses of the soul are fields for their operation . 
Anxiety and care ultimately throw her into the arms of the haggard and grim monster death . 
With what solicitude she awaits his return ! Sleep fails to perform its office she weeps while the nocturnal shades of the night triumph in the stillness . 
Bending over some favorite book , whilst the author throws before her mind the most beautiful imagery , she startles at every sound . 
The midnight silence is broken by the solemn announcement of the return of another morning . 
Mark her unwearied watchfulness , as the night passes away . 
At last , brutalized by the accursed thing , he staggers along with rage , and , shivering with cold , he makes his appearance . 
Not a murmur is heard from her lips . 
On the contrary , she meets him with a smile she caresses him with tender arms , with all the gentleness and softness of her sex . 
Here , then , is seen her disposition , beautifully arrayed . 
Woman , thou art more to be admired than the spicy gales of Arabia , and more sought for than the gold of Golconda . 
We believe that Woman should associate freely with man , and we believe that it is for the preservation of her rights . 
She should become acquainted with the metaphysical designs of those who condescended to sing the siren song of flattery . 
This , we think , should be according to the unwritten law of decorum , which is stamped upon every innocent heart . 
The precepts of prudery are often steeped in the guilt of contamination , which blasts the expectations of better moments . 
But this cannot always continue . 
He endeavored to make his way through Sawney's Mountain , where many meet to catch the gales that are continually blowing for the refreshment of the stranger and the traveler . 
Surrounded as he was by hills on every side , naked rocks dared the efforts of his energies . 
Soon the sky became overcast , the sun buried itself in the clouds , and the fair day gave place to gloomy twilight , which lay heavily on the Indian Plains . 
He remembered an old Indian Castle , that once stood at the foot of the mountain . 
He thought if he could make his way to this , he would rest contented for a short time . 
The mountain air breathed fragrance a rosy tinge rested on the glassy waters that murmured at its base . 
This of course made the youth a welcome guest , and gained him friends in whatever condition of life he might be placed . 
The traveler observed that he was a well built figure , which showed strength and grace in every movement . 
He accordingly addressed him in quite a gentlemanly manner , and inquired of him the way to the village . 
The youth looked somewhat amazed , bowed low , mused for a moment , and began My name is Roswell . 
Elfonzo had bid farewell to the youth of deep feeling , and was not wending his way to the dreaming spot of his fondness . 
The south winds whistled through the woods , as the waters dashed against the banks , as rapid fire in the pent furnace roars . 
This brought him to remember while alone , that he quietly left behind the hospitality of a father's house , and gladly entered the world , with higher hopes than are often realized . 
But as he journeyed onward , he was mindful of the advice of his father , who had often looked sadly on the ground when tears of cruelly deceived hope moistened his eye . 
I read another destiny in thy countenance I learn thy inclinations from the flame that has already kindled in my soul a stranger sensation . 
I once thought not so . 
Our most innocent as well as our most lawful DESIRES must often be denied us , that we may learn to sacrifice them to a Higher will . 
Remembering such admonitions with gratitude , Elfonzo was immediately urged by the recollection of his father's family to keep moving . 
He entered its classic walls in the usual mode of southern manners . 
The principal of the Institution begged him to be seated and listen to the recitations that were going on . 
He accordingly obeyed the request , and seemed to be much pleased . 
He said he had determined to become a student , if he could meet with his approbation . 
Sir , said he , I have spent much time in the world . 
I have traveled among the uncivilized inhabitants of America . 
I have met with friends , and combated with foes but none of these gratify my ambition , or decide what is to be my destiny . 
I see the learned would have an influence with the voice of the people themselves . 
The despoilers of the remotest kingdoms of the earth refer their differences to this class of persons . 
The instructor , who had met with many disappointments , knew how to feel for a stranger who had been thus turned upon the charities of an unfeeling community . 
He looked at him earnestly , and said Be of good cheer look forward , sir , to the high destination you may attain . 
Remember , the more elevated the mark at which you aim , the more sure , the more glorious , the more magnificent the prize . 
From wonder to wonder , his encouragement led the impatient listener . 
A stranger nature bloomed before him giant streams promised him success gardens of hidden treasures opened to his view . 
All this , so vividly described , seemed to gain a new witchery from his glowing fancy . 
In he entered the class , and made rapid progress in the English and Latin departments . 
He was aware of the pleasure that he had seen there . 
So one evening , as he was returning from his reading , he concluded he would pay a visit to this enchanting spot . 
Little did he think of witnessing a shadow of his former happiness , though no doubt he wished it might be so . 
He continued sauntering by the roadside , meditating on the past . 
The nearer he approached the spot , the more anxious he became . 
Nothing was wanting to complete her beauty . 
The tinge of the rose was in full bloom upon her cheek the charms of sensibility and tenderness were always her associates . 
In Ambulinia's bosom dwelt a noble soul one that never faded one that never was conquered . 
Elfonzo was roused from his apparent reverie . 
His books no longer were his inseparable companions his thoughts arrayed themselves to encourage him in the field of victory . 
He endeavored to speak to his supposed Ambulinia , but his speech appeared not in words . 
No , his effort was a stream of fire , that kindled his soul into a flame of admiration , and carried his senses away captive . 
Ambulinia had disappeared , to make him more mindful of his duty . 
As she walked speedily away through the piny woods she calmly echoed O ! Elfonzo , thou wilt now look from thy sunbeams . 
Thou shalt now walk in a new path perhaps thy way leads through darkness but fear not , the stars foretell happiness . 
Nothing could be more striking than the difference between the two . 
Nature seemed to have given the more tender soul to Elfonzo , and the stronger and more courageous to Ambulinia . 
He was a few years older than Ambulinia she had turned a little into her seventeenth . 
He had almost grown up in the Cherokee country , with the same equal proportions as one of the natives . 
After many efforts and struggles with his own person , with timid steps the Major approached the damsel , with the same caution as he would have done in a field of battle . 
Lady Ambulinia , said he , trembling , I have long desired a moment like this . 
I dare not let it escape . 
I fear the consequences yet I hope your indulgence will at least hear my petition . 
I know not the little arts of my sex . 
It is better to repent now than to do it in a more solemn hour . 
Yes , I know what you would say . 
I know you have a costly gift for me the noblest that man can make YOUR HEART ! you should not offer it to one so unworthy . 
Notwithstanding all this , let me speak the emotions of an honest heart allow me to say in the fullness of my hopes that I anticipate better days . 
From your confession and indicative looks , I must be that person if so , deceive not yourself . 
Elfonzo replied , Pardon me , my dear madam , for my frankness . 
I saw how Leos worshipped thee . 
I felt my own unworthiness . 
I began to KNOW JEALOUSY a strong guest , indeed , in my bosom yet I could see if I gained your admiration Leos was to be my rival . 
I entreat you to condescend a little , and be a man , and forget it all . 
When Homer describes the battle of the gods and noble men fighting with giants and dragons , they represent under this image our struggles with the delusions of our passions . 
You have exalted me , an unhappy girl , to the skies you have called me a saint , and portrayed in your imagination an angel in human form . 
Let her remain such to you , let her continue to be as you have supposed , and be assured that she will consider a share in your esteem as her highest treasure . 
Think not that I would allure you from the path in which your conscience leads you for you know I respect the conscience of others , as I would die for my own . 
Elfonzo , if I am worthy of thy love , let such conversation never again pass between us . 
Go , seek a nobler theme ! we will seek it in the stream of time as the sun set in the Tigris . 
He ventured not to follow or detain her . 
Here he stood alone , gazing at the stars confounded as he was , here he stood . 
The rippling stream rolled on at his feet . 
Twilight had already begun to draw her sable mantle over the earth , and now and then the fiery smoke would ascend from the little town which lay spread out before him . 
The citizens seemed to be full of life and good humor but poor Elfonzo saw not a brilliant scene . 
No his future life stood before him , stripped of the hopes that once adorned all his sanguine desires . 
Alas ! said he , am I now Grief's disappointed son at last . 
Ambulinia's image rose before his fancy . 
He still endeavored to prosecute his studies , and reasonable progressed in his education . 
Still , he was not content there was something yet to be done before his happiness was complete . 
He would visit his friends and acquaintances . 
They would invite him to social parties , insisting that he should partake of the amusements that were going on . 
This he enjoyed tolerably well . 
He passed some days in the country . 
During that time Leos had made many calls upon Ambulinia , who was generally received with a great deal of courtesy by the family . 
Elfonzo again wends his way to the stately walls and new built village . 
He now determines to see the end of the prophesy which had been foretold to him . 
The clouds burst from his sight he believes if he can but see his Ambulinia , he can open to her view the bloody altars that have been misrepresented to stigmatize his name . 
He knows that her breast is transfixed with the sword of reason , and ready at all times to detect the hidden villainy of her enemies . 
He resolves to see her in her own home , with the consoling theme 'I can but perish if I go . 
Let the consequences be what they may , said he , if I die , it shall be contending and struggling for my own rights . 
Night had almost overtaken him when he arrived in town . 
Colonel Elder , a noble hearted , high minded , and independent man , met him at his door as usual , and seized him by the hand . 
Perseverance is a principle that should be commendable in those who have judgment to govern it . 
And so with every other undertaking . 
This filled him with redoubled vigor , and he set out with a stronger anxiety than ever to the home of Ambulinia . 
A few short steps soon brought him to the door , half out of breath . 
Elfonzo caught the expression a halloo of smothered shouts ran through every vein , and for the first time he dared to impress a kiss upon her cheek . 
Ambulinia insisted upon Elfonzo to be seated , and give her a history of his unnecessary absence assuring him the family had retired , consequently they would ever remain ignorant of his visit . 
It does seem to me , my dear sir , said Ambulinia , that you have been gone an age . 
Oh , the restless hours I have spent since I last saw you , in yon beautiful grove . 
There is where I trifled with your feelings for the express purpose of trying your attachment for me . 
I now find you are devoted but ah ! I trust you live not unguarded by the powers of Heaven . 
Dismiss thy fears and thy doubts , replied Elfonzo . 
Look , O ! look that angelic look of thine bathe not thy visage in tears banish those floods that are gathering let my confession and my presence being thee some relief . 
One of the most tragical scenes is to be acted that has ever been witnessed , and one that every jealous hearted person should learn a lesson from . 
It cannot fail to have a good effect , as it will be performed by those who are young and vigorous , and learned as well as enticing . 
You are aware , Major Elfonzo , who are to appear on the stage , and what the characters are to represent . 
What strange notions are in your mind ? inquired Ambulinia . 
Oh , I think I foresee , now , what you anticipate . 
And will you have the goodness to tell me what you think it will be ? inquired Elfonzo . 
This fortuitous circumstances added more the bliss of the Major than a thousand such exhibitions would have done . 
Then , again , he would drop his head , as if attempting to solve the most difficult problem in Euclid . 
While he was thus conjecturing in his own mind , a very interesting part of the exhibition was going on , which called the attention of all present . 
The curtains of the stage waved continually by the repelled forces that were given to them , which caused Leos to behold Ambulinia leaning upon the chair of Elfonzo . 
Amelia was the wife of Farcillo , and a virtuous woman Gracia , a young lady , was her particular friend and confidant . 
Farcillo grew jealous of Amelia , murders her , finds out that he was deceived , AND STABS HIMSELF . 
Amelia appears alone , talking to herself . 
Here I wander upon the stage of mortality , since the world hath turned against me . 
What a lingering catalogue of sighs and tears lies just before me , crowding my aching bosom with the fleeting dream of humanity , which must shortly terminate . 
A. Not the child of poverty , Gracia , or the heir of glory and peace , but of fate . 
This blind fatality , that capriciously sports with the rules and lives of mortals , tells me that the mountains will never again send forth the water of their springs to my thirst . 
Oh , that I might be freed and set at liberty from wretchedness ! But I fear , I fear this will never be . 
A. This , of course , is some consolation . 
And I , like some poor peasant fated to reside Remote from friends , in a forest wide . 
Oh , see what woman's woes and human wants require , Since that great day hath spread the seed of sinful fire . 
G. Look up , thou poor disconsolate you speak of quitting earthly enjoyments . 
With verdant green the mountains glow , For thee , for thee , the lilies grow Far stretched beneath the tented hills , A fairer flower the valley fills . 
A. Who is there Farcillo ? G. Then I must gone . 
Oh , Amelia , farewell , be of good cheer . 
May you stand like Olympus' towers , Against earth and all jealous powers ! May you , with loud shouts ascend on high Swift as an eagle in the upper sky . 
A. Why so cold and distant tonight , Farcillo ? Come , let us each other greet , and forget all the past , and give security for the future . 
A. Oh , be kind , Farcillo , don't treat me so . 
I would not slay thy unprotected spirit . 
A. What , talk you of killing ? Oh , Farcillo , Farcillo , what is the matter ? F. Aye , I do , without doubt mark what I say , Amelia . 
A. Then , O God , O Heaven , and Angels , be propitious , and have mercy upon me . 
F. Amen to that , madam , with all my heart , and with all my soul . 
A. Farcillo , listen to me one moment I hope you will not kill me . 
I stand , sir , guiltless before you . 
F. You pretend to say you are guiltless ! Think of thy sins , Amelia think , oh , think , hidden woman . 
A. Wherein have I not been true to you ? That death is unkind , cruel , and unnatural , that kills for living . 
F. Peace , and be still while I unfold to thee . 
A. I will , Farcillo , and while I am thus silent , tell me the cause of such cruel coldness in an hour like this . 
You became tired of the donor , despised it as a plague , and finally gave it to Malos , the hidden , the vile traitor . 
A. No , upon my word and honor , I never did I appeal to the Most High to bear me out in this matter . 
Send for Malos , and ask him . 
F. Send for Malos , aye ! Malos you wish to see I thought so . 
I knew you could not keep his name concealed . 
Amelia , sweet Amelia , take heed , take heed of perjury you are on the stage of death , to suffer for YOUR SINS . 
A. What , not to die I hope , my Farcillo , my ever beloved . 
F. Yes , madam , to die a traitor's death . 
Shortly your spirit shall take its exit therefore confess freely thy sins , for to deny tends only to make me groan under the bitter cup thou hast made for me . 
F. Amen , I say , with all my heart . 
F. Oh , false , perjured woman , thou didst chill my blood , and makest me a demon like thyself . 
A. He found it , then , or got it clandestinely send for him , and let him confess the truth let his confession be sifted . 
F. And you still with to see him ! I tell you , madam , he hath already confessed , and thou knowest the darkness of thy heart . 
A. What , my deceived Farcillo , that I gave him the ring , in which all my affections were concentrated ? Oh , surely not . 
F. Aye , he did . 
Ask thy conscience , and it will speak with a voice of thunder to thy soul . 
A. He will not say so , he dare not , he cannot . 
A. Alas ! he is ushered into eternity without testing the matter for which I am abused and sentenced and condemned to die . 
I would make him have the thirst of a Tantalus , and roll the wheel of an Ixion , until the stars of heaven should quit their brilliant stations . 
F. Your petitions avail nothing , cruel Amelia . 
F. Amelia , the decree has gone forth , it is to be done , and that quickly thou art to die , madam . 
A. But half an hour allow me , to see my father and my only child , to tell her the treachery and vanity of this world . 
A. Oh , Farcillo , put up thy threatening dagger into its scabbard let it rest and be still , just while I say one prayer for thee and for my child . 
F. It is too late , thy doom is fixed , thou hast not confessed to Heaven or to me , my child's protector thou art to die . 
Ye powers of earth and heaven , protect and defend me in this alone . 
A. Oh , Farcillo , Farcillo , a guiltless death I die . 
G. Oh , Farcillo , Farcillo ! oh , Farcillo ! F. I am here , the genius of the age , and the avenger of my wrongs . 
G. Oh , lady , speak once more sweet Amelia , on , speak again . 
Gone , gone yes , forever gone ! Farcillo , oh , cold hearted Farcillo , some evil fiend hath urged you to do this , Farcillo . 
F. Say not so again , or you shall receive the same fate . 
I did the glorious deed , madam beware , then , how you talk . 
G. I fear not your implements of war I will let you know you have not the power to do me harm . 
If you have a heart of triple brass , it shall be reached and melted , and thy blood shall chill thy veins and grow stiff in thy arteries . 
Oh , had you waited till tomorrow , or until I had returned , some kind window would have been opened to her relief . 
Here is the seat of Elfonzo darkness claims but little victory over this dominion , and in vain does she spread out her gloomy wings . 
Here the waters flow perpetually , and the trees lash their tops together to bid the welcome visitor a happy muse . 
Elfonzo , during his short stay in the country , had fully persuaded himself that it was his duty to bring this solemn matter to an issue . 
How he should communicate his intentions to get a favorable reply , he was at a loss to know he knew not whether to address Esq . 
, January , Mr. and Mrs. Valeer Again I resume the pleasing task of addressing you , and once more beg an immediate answer to my many salutations . 
I wish no longer to be kept in suspense about this matter . 
I wish to act gentlemanly in every particular . 
We have sword by the saints by the gods of battle , and by that faith whereby just men are made perfect to be united . 
With very great esteem , your humble servant , J. I. Elfonzo . 
The moon and stars had grown pale when Ambulinia had retired to rest . 
A crowd of unpleasant thoughts passed through her bosom . 
Solitude dwelt in her chamber no sound from the neighboring world penetrated its stillness it appeared a temple of silence , of repose , and of mystery . 
At that moment she heard a still voice calling her father . 
In an instant , like the flash of lightning , a thought ran through her mind that it must be the bearer of Elfonzo's communication . 
It is not a dream ! she said , no , I cannot read dreams . 
Oh ! I would to Heaven I was near that glowing eloquence that poetical language it charms the mind in an inexpressible manner , and warms the coldest heart . 
He is a pretty man to make love known to his superiors , and you , Ambulinia , have done but little credit to yourself by honoring his visits . 
Oh , wretchedness ! can it be that my hopes of happiness are forever blasted ! Will you not listen to a father's entreaties , and pay some regard to a mother's tears . 
Forgive me , father , oh ! forgive thy child , replied Ambulinia . 
My heart is ready to break , when I see you in this grieved state of agitation . 
Oh ! think not so meanly of me , as that I mourn for my own danger . 
Father , I am only woman . 
Oh , father ! if your generosity will but give me these , I ask nothing more . 
When Elfonzo offered me his heart , I gave him my hand , never to forsake him , and now may the mighty God banish me before I leave him in adversity . 
Oh , I never can forget you no , never , never ! Weep not , said the father , Ambulinia . 
I will forbid Elfonzo my house , and desire that you may keep retired a few days . 
When Elfonzo read the above letter , he became so much depressed in spirits that many of his friends thought it advisable to use other means to bring about the happy union . 
Strange , said he , that the contents of this diminutive letter should cause me to have such depressed feelings but there is a nobler theme than this . 
I know not why my MILITARY TITLE is not as great as that of SQUIRE VALEER . 
For my life I cannot see that my ancestors are inferior to those who are so bitterly opposed to my marriage with Ambulinia . 
He was aware that Ambulinia had a confidence that was , indeed , as firm and as resolute as she was beautiful and interesting . 
He hastened to the cottage of Louisa , who received him in her usual mode of pleasantness , and informed him that Ambulinia had just that moment left . 
Is it possible ? said Elfonzo . 
You know , said Louisa , Major Elfonzo , that you have Ambulinia's first love , which is of no small consequence . 
She came here about twilight , and shed many precious tears in consequence of her own fate with yours . 
We walked silently in yon little valley you see , where we spent a momentary repose . 
She seemed to be quite as determined as ever , and before we left that beautiful spot she offered up a prayer to Heaven for thee . 
I will see her then , replied Elfonzo , though legions of enemies may oppose . 
She is mine by foreordination she is mine by prophesy she is mine by her own free will , and I will rescue her from the hands of her oppressors . 
God alone will save a mourning people . 
Now is the day and now is the hour to obey a command of such valuable worth . 
The Major felt himself grow stronger after this short interview with Louisa . 
Your warmest associates say come the talented , the learned , the wise , and the experienced say come all these with their friends say , come . 
You cannot be ignorant , Ambulinia , that thou art the desire of my heart its thoughts are too noble , and too pure , to conceal themselves from you . 
I am , dear Ambulinia , your truly , and forever , J. I. Elfonzo . 
Ambulinia was seated by a small table her head resting on her hand her brilliant eyes were bathed in tears . 
Oh , unhappy and yet blessed Louisa ! may you never feel what I have felt may you never know the pangs of love . 
Amuse yourself with this little book , and take it as an apology for my silence , said Ambulinia , while I attempt to answer this volume of consolation . 
I will , said Ambulinia , and immediately resumed her seat and addressed the following to Elfonzo Cumming , Ga . 
Devoted Elfonzo I hail your letter as a welcome messenger of faith , and can now say truly and firmly that my feelings correspond with yours . 
Nothing shall be wanting on my part to make my obedience your fidelity . 
Courage and perseverance will accomplish success . 
Receive this as my oath , that while I grasp your hand in my own imagination , we stand united before a higher tribunal than any on earth . 
All the powers of my life , soul , and body , I devote to thee . 
Whatever dangers may threaten me , I fear not to encounter them . 
The day that I have concluded upon for this task is SABBATH next , when the family with the citizens are generally at church . 
Suffer me to add one word more . 
I will soothe thee , in all thy grief , Beside the gloomy river And though thy love may yet be brief Mine is fixed forever . 
Receive the deepest emotions of my heart for thy constant love , and may the power of inspiration by thy guide , thy portion , and thy all . 
In great haste , Yours faithfully , Ambulinia . 
I now take my leave of you , sweet girl , said Louisa , sincerely wishing you success on Sabbath next . 
When Ambulinia's letter was handed to Elfonzo , he perused it without doubting its contents . 
The appointed Sabbath , with a delicious breeze and cloudless sky , made its appearance . 
The people gathered in crowds to the church the streets were filled with neighboring citizens , all marching to the house of worship . 
The impatience and anxiety with which they waited , and the bliss they anticipated on the eventful day , is altogether indescribable . 
Immediately after Ambulinia had assisted the family off to church , she took advantage of that opportunity to make good her promises . 
She left a home of enjoyment to be wedded to one whose love had been justifiable . 
With lively speed , and yet a graceful air , she entered the door and found herself protected by the champion of her confidence . 
Elfonzo desired to maintain his ground , but Ambulinia thought it best for him to leave , to prepare for a greater contest . 
Ambulinia concealed herself in the upper story of the house , fearing the rebuke of her father the door was locked , and no chastisement was now expected . 
Esquire Valeer , whose pride was already touched , resolved to preserve the dignity of his family . 
He entered the house almost exhausted , looking wildly for Ambulinia . 
Amazed and astonished indeed I am , said he , at a people who call themselves civilized , to allow such behavior as this . 
Ambulinia , Ambulinia ! he cried , come to the calls of your first , your best , and your only friend . 
I care nothing about that outcast rubbish of creation , that mean , low lived Elfonzo , if I can but obtain Ambulinia . 
Are you not going to open this door ? said he . 
Some rushed into the house the door that was locked flew open , and there stood Ambulinia , weeping . 
Father , be still , said she , and I will follow thee home . 
But the agitated man seized her , and bore her off through the gazing multitude . 
Father ! she exclaimed , I humbly beg your pardon I will be dutiful I will obey thy commands . 
Let the sixteen years I have lived in obedience to thee by my future security . 
I don't like to be always giving credit , when the old score is not paid up , madam , said the father . 
Elfonzo was moved at this sight . 
Ride on the wings of the wind ! Turn thy force loose like a tempest , and roll on thy army like a whirlwind , over this mountain of trouble and confusion . 
Elfonzo called out with a loud voice , My God , can I stand this ! arise up , I beseech you , and put an end to this tyranny . 
Come , my brave boys , said he , are you ready to go forth to your duty ? They stood around him . 
But God forbid that our fame should soar on the blood of the slumberer . 
Mr. Valeer stands at his door with the frown of a demon upon his brow , with his dangerous weapon ready to strike the first man who should enter his door . 
Who will arise and go forward through blood and carnage to the rescue of my Ambulinia ? said Elfonzo . 
All , exclaimed the multitude and onward they went , with their implements of battle . 
Others , of a more timid nature , stood among the distant hills to see the result of the contest . 
Elfonzo took the lead of his band . 
Night arose in clouds darkness concealed the heavens but the blazing hopes that stimulated them gleamed in every bosom . 
All approached the anxious spot they rushed to the front of the house and , with one exclamation , demanded Ambulinia . 
Away , begone , and disturb my peace no more , said Mr. Valeer . 
You are a set of base , insolent , and infernal rascals . 
The voice of Ambulinia shall be heard from that dark dungeon . 
My ghost shall visit you in the smiles of Paradise , and tell your high fame to the minds of that region , which is far more preferable than this lonely cell . 
My heart shall speak for thee till the latest hour I know faint and broken are the sounds of sorrow , yet our souls , Elfonzo , shall hear the peaceful songs together . 
Fly , Elfonzo , said the voices of his united band , to the wounded heart of your beloved . 
All enemies shall fall beneath thy sword . 
Fly through the clefts , and the dim spark shall sleep in death . 
Elfonzo rushes forward and strikes his shield against the door , which was barricaded , to prevent any intercourse . 
His brave sons throng around him . 
The people pour along the streets , both male and female , to prevent or witness the melancholy scene . 
To arms , to arms ! cried Elfonzo here is a victory to be won , a prize to be gained that is more to me that the whole world beside . 
It cannot be done tonight , said Mr. Valeer . 
I bear the clang of death my strength and armor shall prevail . 
My Ambulinia shall rest in this hall until the break of another day , and if we fall , we fall together . 
If we die , we die clinging to our tattered rights , and our blood alone shall tell the mournful tale of a murdered daughter and a ruined father . 
Sure enough , he kept watch all night , and was successful in defending his house and family . 
Many of the citizen suspended business , as the town presented nothing but consternation . 
A novelty that might end in the destruction of some worthy and respectable citizens . 
Mr. Valeer ventured in the streets , though not without being well armed . 
Some of his friends congratulated him on the decided stand he had taken , and hoped he would settle the matter amicably with Elfonzo , without any serious injury . 
I wish to divest myself , as far as possible , of that untutored custom . 
Ambulinia was sent off to prepare for a long and tedious journey . 
Her new acquaintances had been instructed by her father how to treat her , and in what manner , and to keep the anticipated visit entirely secret . 
Elfonzo was watching the movements of everybody some friends had told him of the plot that was laid to carry off Ambulinia . 
But the hour had not come for this joyous reunion her friends struggled with Elfonzo for some time , and finally succeeded in arresting her from his hands . 
Several long days and night passed unmolested , all seemed to have grounded their arms of rebellion , and no callidity appeared to be going on with any of the parties . 
They therefore declined the idea of sending her to a distant land . 
No frowning age shall control The constant current of my soul , Nor a tear from pity's eye Shall check my sympathetic sigh . 
Tully , and for her to make a quick escape while the family was reposing . 
Oh , tell me , ye strong spirits , or ye dark and fleeting clouds , that I yet have a friend . 
A friend , said a low , whispering voice . 
I am thy unchanging , thy aged , and thy disappointed mother . 
Come , my dear child , retract your steps , and bear me company to your welcome home . 
Her father received her cold and formal politeness Where has Ambulinia been , this blustering evening , Mrs. Valeer ? inquired he . 
Oh , she and I have been taking a solitary walk , said the mother all things , I presume , are now working for the best . 
Elfonzo heard this news shortly after it happened . 
What , said he , has heaven and earth turned against me ? I have been disappointed times without number . 
Desolate Hill , Cumming , Geo . 
Unconquered and Beloved Ambulinia I have only time to say to you , not to despair thy fame shall not perish my visions are brightening before me . 
The whirlwind's rage is past , and we now shall subdue our enemies without doubt . 
Fail not to do this think not of the tedious relations of our wrongs be invincible . 
You alone occupy all my ambition , and I alone will make you my happy spouse , with the same unimpeached veracity . 
I remain , forever , your devoted friend and admirer , J. L. Elfonzo . 
The appointed day ushered in undisturbed by any clouds nothing disturbed Ambulinia's soft beauty . 
With serenity and loveliness she obeys the request of Elfonzo . 
And away she ran to the sacred grove , surrounded with glittering pearls , that indicated her coming . 
Elfonzo hails her with his silver bow and his golden harp . 
They meet Ambulinia's countenance brightens Elfonzo leads up his winged steed . 
Mount , said he , ye true hearted , ye fearless soul the day is ours . 
Lend thy aid , ye strong winds , they exclaimed , ye moon , ye sun , and all ye fair host of heaven , witness the enemy conquered . 
Hold , said Elfonzo , thy dashing steed . 
Ride on , said Ambulinia , the voice of thunder is behind us . 
But come in , come in , never mind , all is right the world still moves on , and no one has fallen in this great battle . 
Happy now is there lot ! Unmoved by misfortune , they live among the fair beauties of the South . 
Heaven spreads their peace and fame upon the arch of the rainbow , and smiles propitiously at their triumph , THROUGH THE TEARS OF THE STORM . 
They went away when the surface diggings gave out . 
This was down toward Tuttletown . 
And so , at last , in the early part of the afternoon , when I caught sight of a human creature , I felt a most grateful uplift . 
This person was a man about forty five years old , and he was standing at the gate of one of those cozy little rose clad cottages of the sort already referred to . 
I was invited in , of course , and required to make myself at home it was the custom of the country . 
All her work , he said , caressingly she did it all herself every bit , and he took the room in with a glance which was full of affectionate worship . 
One of those soft Japanese fabrics with which women drape with careful negligence the upper part of a picture frame was out of adjustment . 
He noticed it , and rearranged it with cautious pains , stepping back several times to gauge the effect before he got it to suit him . 
Then he gave it a light finishing pat or two with his hand , and said She always does that . 
It's like the finishing pats a mother gives the child's hair after she's got it combed and brushed , I reckon . 
I've seen her fix all these things so much that I can do them all just her way , though I don't know the law of any of them . 
But she knows the law . 
She knows the why and the how both but I don't know the why I only know the how . 
So my face spoke again , and he answered with gratified words All her work she did it all herself every bit . 
Nothing here that hasn't felt the touch of her hand . 
Now you would think But I mustn't talk so much . 
He broke into a happy laugh , and rubbed his hands together , and cried out That's it ! You've found it . 
I went to the little black walnut bracket on the farther wall , and did find there what I had not yet noticed a daguerreotype case . 
It contained the sweetest girlish face , and the most beautiful , as it seemed to me , that I had ever seen . 
The man drank the admiration from my face , and was fully satisfied . 
Nineteen her last birthday , he said , as he put the picture back and that was the day we were married . 
When you see her ah , just wait till you see her ! Where is she ? When will she be in ? Oh , she's away now . 
She's gone to see her people . 
They live forty or fifty miles from here . 
She's been gone two weeks today . 
When do you expect her back ? This is Wednesday . 
She'll be back Saturday , in the evening about nine o'clock , likely . 
I felt a sharp sense of disappointment . 
I'm sorry , because I'll be gone then , I said , regretfully . 
Gone ? No why should you go ? Don't go . 
She would be disappointed that beautiful creature ! If she had said the words herself they could hardly have blessed me more . 
I was feeling a deep , strong longing to see her a longing so supplicating , so insistent , that it made me afraid . 
I said to myself I will go straight away from this place , for my peace of mind's sake . 
You see , she likes to have people come and stop with us people who know things , and can talk people like you . 
Don't go it's only a little while , you know , and she'll be so disappointed . 
I heard the words , but hardly noticed them , I was so deep in my thinkings and strugglings . 
He left me , but I didn't know . 
That second glimpse broke down my good resolution . 
I would stay and take the risk . 
The Thursday followed and slipped comfortably away . 
Toward twilight a big miner from three miles away came one of the grizzled , stranded pioneers and gave us warm salutation , clothed in grave and sober speech . 
Then he said I only just dropped over to ask about the little madam , and when is she coming home . 
Any news from her ? Oh , yes , a letter . 
As the reader finished , he glanced at Tom , and cried out Oho , you're at it again ! Take your hands away , and let me see your eyes . 
You always do that when I read a letter from her . 
I will write and tell her . 
Oh no , you mustn't , Henry . 
I'm getting old , you know , and any little disappointment makes me want to cry . 
I thought she'd be here herself , and now you've got only a letter . 
Well , now , what put that in your head ? I thought everybody knew she wasn't coming till Saturday . 
Saturday ! Why , come to think , I did know it . 
I wonder what's the matter with me lately ? Certainly I knew it . 
Ain't we all getting ready for her ? Well , I must be going now . 
Lord , we miss her so ! he said . 
Saturday afternoon I found I was taking out my watch pretty often . 
But he didn't seem quite satisfied and from that time on he began to show uneasiness . 
Four times he walked me up the road to a point whence we could see a long distance and there he would stand , shading his eyes with his hand , and looking . 
Several times he said I'm getting worried , I'm getting right down worried . 
I know she's not due till about nine o'clock , and yet something seems to be trying to warn me that something's happened . 
It seemed to shrivel him up and cow him and he looked so wounded and so humble after that , that I detested myself for having done the cruel and unnecessary thing . 
Charley fetched out one hearty speech after another , and did his best to drive away his friend's bodings and apprehensions . 
Anything HAPPENED to her ? Henry , that's pure nonsense . 
There isn't anything going to happen to her just make your mind easy as to that . 
Well , then , don't you fret she'll BE here , and that's absolutely certain , and as sure as you are born . 
Come , now , let's get to decorating not much time left . 
Pretty soon Tom and Joe arrived , and then all hands set about adoring the house with flowers . 
A fiddle , a banjo , and a clarinet these were the instruments . 
The trio took their places side by side , and began to play some rattling dance music , and beat time with their big boots . 
It was getting very close to nine . 
Henry was standing in the door with his eyes directed up the road , his body swaying to the torture of his mental distress . 
I reached for one of the two remaining glasses , but Joe growled under his breath Drop that ! Take the other . 
He had hardly swallowed his drink when the clock began to strike . 
He listened till it finished , his face growing pale and paler then he said Boys , I'm sick with fear . 
Help me I want to lie down ! They helped him to the sofa . 
Her horse is lame , but she'll be here in half an hour . 
Oh , I'm SO thankful nothing has happened ! He was asleep almost before the words were out of his mouth . 
In a moment those handy men had his clothes off , and had tucked him into his bed in the chamber where I had washed my hands . 
They closed the door and came back . 
Then they seemed preparing to leave but I said Please don't go , gentlemen . 
She won't know me I am a stranger . 
They glanced at each other . 
Then Joe said She ? Poor thing , she's been dead nineteen years ! Dead ? That or worse . 
And he lost his mind in consequence ? Never has been sane an hour since . 
But he only gets bad when that time of year comes round . 
We've done it every year for nineteen years . 
The first Saturday there was twenty seven of us , without counting the girls there's only three of us now , and the girls are gone . 
And with it I wish to print the answer which I wrote at the time but probably did not send . 
If it went which is not likely it went in the form of a copy , for I find the original still here , pigeonholed with the said letter . 
THE LETTER X , California , JUNE , . 
Mr. S. L. Clemens , HARTFORD , CONN . 
Dear Sir , You will doubtless be surprised to know who has presumed to write and ask a favor of you . 
let your memory go back to your days in the Humboldt mines . 
He lived in the principal cabin , half way up the divide , along with Dixon and Parker and Smith . 
It had two rooms , one for kitchen and the other for bunks , and was the only one that had . 
You and your party were there on the great night , the time they had dried apple pie , Uncle Simmons often speaks of it . 
Sixteen years ago it is a long time . 
I was a little girl then , only fourteen . 
I never saw you , I lived in Washoe . 
But Uncle Simmons ran across you every now and then , all during those weeks that you and party were there working your claim which was like the rest . 
The camp played out long and long ago , there wasn't silver enough in it to make a button . 
You never saw my husband , but he was there after you left , AND LIVED IN THAT VERY LEAN TO , a bachelor then but married to me now . 
He often wishes there had been a photographer there in those days , he would have taken the lean to . 
It landed him clear down on the train and hit a Piute . 
For weeks they thought he would not get over it but he did , and is all right , now . 
This is a long introduction but it is the only way I can make myself known . 
The favor I ask I feel assured your generous heart will grant Give me some advice about a book I have written . 
I do not claim anything for it only it is mostly true and as interesting as most of the books of the times . 
I am unknown in the literary world and you know what that means unless one has some one of influence to help you by speaking a good word for you . 
I would like to place the book on royalty basis plan with any one you would suggest . 
This is a secret from my husband and family . 
I intend it as a surprise in case I get it published . 
I appeal to you to grant me this favor . 
With deepest gratitude I think you for your attention . 
It always follows the one pattern You do not know me , BUT YOU ONCE KNEW A RELATIVE OF MINE , etc . 
The struggler whom you COULD help does his own helping it would not occur to him to apply to you , stranger . 
He has talent and knows it , and he goes into his fight eagerly and with energy and determination all alone , preferring to be alone . 
Was I satisfied with the result ? Possibly and possibly not probably not almost certainly not . 
I have long ago forgotten all about it . 
There will be a conversation . 
I know the form it will take . 
It will be like this MR . 
H. How do her books strike you ? MR . 
I am not acquainted with them . 
H. Who has been her publisher ? C. I don't know . 
H. She HAS one , I suppose ? C. I I think not . 
You think this is her first book ? C. Yes I suppose so . 
H. What is it about ? What is the character of it ? C. I believe I do not know . 
H. Have you seen it ? C. Well no , I haven't . 
How long have you known her ? C. I don't know her . 
H. Don't know her ? C. No. H. Ah h . 
How did you come to be interested in her book , then ? C. Well , she she wrote and asked me to find a publisher for her , and mentioned you . 
H. Why should she apply to you instead of me ? C. She wished me to use my influence . 
H. Why , what we are here FOR is to examine books anybody's book that comes along . 
Why should we turn away a book unexamined because it's a stranger's ? It would be foolish . 
On what ground did she request your influence , since you do not know her ? She must have thought you knew her literature and could speak for it . 
Is that it ? C. No she knew I didn't . 
H. Knew her UNCLE ? C. Yes . 
H. To HIM , or to the Indian ? C. She didn't say which it was . 
You are forgetting her uncle . 
I think it was that way you can't tell about these things , you know , except when they are recent . 
H. Recent ? When was all this ? C. Sixteen years ago . 
H. What a basis to judge a book upon ! As first you said you knew him , and not you don't know whether you did or not . 
C. Oh yes , I know him anyway , I think I thought I did I'm perfectly certain of it . 
H. What makes you think you thought you knew him ? C. Why , she says I did , herself . 
H. SHE says so ! C. Yes , she does , and I DID know him , too , though I don't remember it now . 
H. Come how can you know it when you don't remember it . 
That is , I don't know the process , but I DO know lots of things that I don't remember , and remember lots of things that I don't know . 
It's so with every educated person . 
Is your time valuable ? C. No well , not very . 
So I came away then , because he was looking tired . 
Overwork , I reckon I never do that I have seen the evil effects of it . 
My mother was always afraid I work overwork myself , but I never did . 
Dear madam , you see how it would happen if I went there . 
But they do care for books , and are eager to get them and examine them , no matter whence they come , nor from whose pen . 
If you will send yours to a publisher any publisher he will certainly examine it , I can assure you of that . 
A TELEPHONIC CONVERSATION Consider that a conversation by telephone when you are simply siting by and not taking any part in that conversation is one of the solemnest curiosities of modern life . 
Yesterday I was writing a deep article on a sublime philosophical subject while such a conversation was going on in the room . 
I notice that one can always write best when somebody is talking through a telephone close by . 
Well , the thing began in this way . 
A member of our household came in and asked me to have our house put into communication with Mr. Bagley's downtown . 
I have observed , in many cities , that the sex always shrink from calling up the central office themselves . 
I don't know why , but they do . 
So I touched the bell , and this talk ensued CENTRAL OFFICE . 
Hello ! I. Is it the Central Office ? C. O. Of course it is . 
What do you want ? I. Will you switch me on to the Bagleys , please ? C. O. All right . 
Just keep your ear to the telephone . 
Did you wish to speak to me ? Without answering , I handed the telephone to the applicant , and sat down . 
Then followed that queerest of all the queer things in this world a conversation with only one end of it . 
You hear questions asked you don't hear the answer . 
You hear invitations given you hear no thanks in return . 
You have listening pauses of dead silence , followed by apparently irrelevant and unjustifiable exclamations of glad surprise or sorrow or dismay . 
You can't make head or tail of the talk , because you never hear anything that the person at the other end of the wire says . 
What did you say ? Pause . 
Oh no , I don't think it was . 
NO ! Oh no , I didn't mean THAT . 
I meant , put it in while it is still boiling or just before it COMES to a boil . 
I turned it over with a backstitch on the selvage edge . 
Yes , I like that way , too but I think it's better to baste it on with Valenciennes or bombazine , or something of that sort . 
It gives it such an air and attracts so much noise . 
It's forty ninth Deuteronomy , sixty forth to ninety seventh inclusive . 
I think we ought all to read it often . 
Perhaps so I generally use a hair pin . 
Children , do be quiet ! Pause OH ! B FLAT ! Dear me , I thought you said it was the cat ! Pause . 
Why , I never heard of it . 
You astound me ! It seems utterly impossible ! Pause . 
Good ness gracious ! Pause . 
Well , what IS this world coming to ? Was it right in CHURCH ? Pause . 
And was her MOTHER there ? Pause . 
Why , Mrs. Bagley , I should have died of humiliation ! What did they DO ? Long pause . 
Yes , I think it IS very sweet and very solemn and impressive , if you get the andantino and the pianissimo right . 
Oh , gum drops , gum drops ! But I never allow them to eat striped candy . 
And of course they CAN'T , till they get their teeth , anyway . 
Oh , not in the least go right on . 
He's here writing it doesn't bother HIM . 
Very well , I'll come if I can . 
Dear me , how it does tire a person's arm to hold this thing up so long ! I wish she'd Pause . 
Oh no , not at all I LIKE to talk but I'm afraid I'm keeping you from your affairs . 
No , we never use butter on them . 
Yes , that is a very good way but all the cook books say they are very unhealthy when they are out of season . 
And HE doesn't like them , anyway especially canned . 
Oh , I think that is too high for them we have never paid over fifty cents a bunch . 
MUST you go ? Well , GOOD by . 
Yes , I think so . 
Four o'clock , then I'll be ready . 
Thank you ever so much . 
Oh , not at all ! just as fresh WHICH ? Oh , I'm glad to hear you say that . 
A man delivers a single brutal Good by , and that is the end of it . 
Not so with the gentle sex I say it in their praise they cannot abide abruptness . 
EDWARD MILLS AND GEORGE BENTON A TALE These two were distantly related to each other seventh cousins , or something of that sort . 
While still babies they became orphans , and were adopted by the Brants , a childless couple , who quickly grew very fond of them . 
The Brants were always saying Be pure , honest , sober , industrious , and considerate of others , and success in life is assured . 
It was destined to be the unswerving rule of Edward Mills's life . 
Sometimes the Brants changed the wording a little , and said Be pure , honest , sober , industrious , considerate , and you will never lack friends . 
Baby Mills was a comfort to everybody about him . 
When he wanted candy and could not have it , he listened to reason , and contented himself without it . 
When Baby Benton wanted candy , he cried for it until he got it . 
Eddie was an increasing comfort , Georgie an increasing solicitude . 
But NO answer was sufficient for Georgie he had to be humored in his desires , or he would carry them with a high hand . 
Naturally , no boy got more swimming skating , berrying , and so forth than he no body ever had a better time . 
It seemed impossible to break Georgie of this bad habit , but the Brants managed it at last by hiring him , with apples and marbles , to stay in . 
By and by the boys were big enough to work , so they were apprenticed to a trade Edward went voluntarily George was coaxed and bribed . 
By and by he ran away again more money and more trouble . 
He ran away a third time and stole a few things to carry with him . 
Edward worked steadily along , and in time became a full partner in his master's business . 
George did not improve he kept the loving hearts of his aged benefactors full of trouble , and their hands full of inventive activities to protect him from ruin . 
This excited no remark , attracted no attention for it was his natural bent . 
Finally , the old people died . 
The property was left to George conditionally he must buy out Edward's partner with it else it must go to a benevolent organization called the Prisoner's Friend Society . 
The old people left a letter , in which they begged their dear son Edward to take their place and watch over George , and help and shield him as they had done . 
Edward dutifully acquiesced , and George became his partner in the business . 
He was not a valuable partner he had been meddling with drink before he soon developed into a constant tippler now , and his flesh and eyes showed the fact unpleasantly . 
Edward had been courting a sweet and kindly spirited girl for some time . 
It would break her heart , she knew it would , and so on but duty was duty . 
So she married George , and Edward's heart came very near breaking , as well as her own . 
However , Edward recovered , and married another girl a very excellent one she was , too . 
Children came to both families . 
Mary did her honest best to reform her husband , but the contract was too large . 
George went on drinking , and by and by he fell to misusing her and the little ones sadly . 
He added a vice , presently that of secret gambling . 
Times were hard , now , and they grew worse . 
Edward moved his family into a garret , and walked the streets day and night , seeking work . 
He begged for it , but in was really not to be had . 
He was astonished to see how soon his face became unwelcome he was astonished and hurt to see how quickly the ancient interest which people had had in him faded out and disappeared . 
Still , he MUST get work so he swallowed his chagrin , and toiled on in search of it . 
But the faster Edward died out of public knowledge and interest , the faster George rose in them . 
He was found lying , ragged and drunk , in the gutter one morning . 
An account of it was published . 
General attention was thus drawn to the poor fellow , and a great many people came forward and helped him toward reform with their countenance and encouragement . 
He did not drink a drop for two months , and meantime was the pet of the good . 
Then he fell in the gutter and there was general sorrow and lamentation . 
But the noble sisterhood rescued him again . 
They cleaned him up , they fed him , they listened to the mournful music of his repentances , they got him his situation again . 
An account of this , also , was published , and the town was drowned in happy tears over the re restoration of the poor beast and struggling victim of the fatal bowl . 
There was an eloquent pause , and then George Benton , escorted by a red sashed detachment of the Ladies of the Refuge , stepped forward upon the platform and signed the pledge . 
The air was rent with applause , and everybody cried for joy . 
Everybody wrung the hand of the new convert when the meeting was over his salary was enlarged next day he was the talk of the town , and its hero . 
An account of it was published . 
George Benton fell , regularly , every three months , but was faithfully rescued and wrought with , every time , and good situations were found for him . 
Finally , he was taken around the country lecturing , as a reformed drunkard , and he had great houses and did an immense amount of good . 
A mighty pressure was brought to bear to save him from the consequences of his forgery , and it was partially successful he was sent up for only two years . 
While all these things were going on , Edward Mills had been quietly making head against adversity . 
He was still poor , but was in receipt of a steady and sufficient salary , as the respected and trusted cashier of a bank . 
George Benton never came near him , and was never heard to inquire about him . 
George got to indulging in long absences from the town there were ill reports about him , but nothing definite . 
One winter's night some masked burglars forced their way into the bank , and found Edward Mills there alone . 
They commanded him to reveal the combination , so that they could get into the safe . 
He said his employers trusted him , and he could not be traitor to that trust . 
He could die , if he must , but while he lived he would be faithful he would not yield up the combination . 
The detectives hunted down the criminals the chief one proved to be George Benton . 
The result was a mass of solid cash amounting to upward of five hundred dollars an average of nearly three eights of a cent for each bank in the Union . 
that the peerless servant's accounts were not square , and that he himself had knocked his brains out with a bludgeon to escape detection and punishment . 
George Benton was arraigned for trial . 
Then everybody seemed to forget the widow and orphans in their solicitude for poor George . 
Everything that money and influence could do was done to save him , but it all failed he was sentenced to death . 
Straightway the Governor was besieged with petitions for commutation or pardon they were brought by tearful young girls by sorrowful old maids by deputations of pathetic widows by shoals of impressive orphans . 
But no , the Governor for once would not yield . 
Now George Benton experienced religion . 
The glad news flew all around . 
His grave had fresh flowers on it every day , for a while , and the head stone bore these words , under a hand pointing aloft He has fought the good fight . 
THE FIVE BOONS OF LIFE Chapter I In the morning of life came a good fairy with her basket , and said Here are gifts . 
Take one , leave the others . 
And be wary , chose wisely oh , choose wisely ! for only one of them is valuable . 
The gifts were five Fame , Love , Riches , Pleasure , Death . 
The youth said , eagerly There is no need to consider and he chose Pleasure . 
He went out into the world and sought out the pleasures that youth delights in . 
But each in its turn was short lived and disappointing , vain and empty and each , departing , mocked him . 
In the end he said These years I have wasted . 
If I could but choose again , I would choose wisely . 
Chapter II The fairy appeared , and said Four of the gifts remain . 
Choose once more and oh , remember time is flying , and only one of them is precious . 
The man considered long , then chose Love and did not mark the tears that rose in the fairy's eyes . 
After many , many years the man sat by a coffin , in an empty home . 
And he communed with himself , saying One by one they have gone away and left me and now she lies here , the dearest and the last . 
Desolation after desolation has swept over me for each hour of happiness the treacherous trader , Love , as sold me I have paid a thousand hours of grief . 
Out of my heart of hearts I curse him . 
It was the fairy speaking . 
The years have taught you wisdom surely it must be so . 
Only one of them has any worth remember it , and choose warily . 
The man reflected long , then chose Fame and the fairy , sighing , went her way . 
Years went by and she came again , and stood behind the man where he sat solitary in the fading day , thinking . 
And she knew his thought My name filled the world , and its praises were on every tongue , and it seemed well with me for a little while . 
How little a while it was ! Then came envy then detraction then calumny then hate then persecution . 
Then derision , which is the beginning of the end . 
And last of all came pity , which is the funeral of fame . 
Oh , the bitterness and misery of renown ! target for mud in its prime , for contempt and compassion in its decay . 
Chapter IV Chose yet again . 
It was the fairy's voice . 
In the beginning there was but one that was precious , and it is still here . 
Wealth which is power ! How blind I was ! said the man . 
Now , at last , life will be worth the living . 
I will spend , squander , dazzle . 
These mockers and despisers will crawl in the dirt before me , and I will feed my hungry heart with their envy . 
I will have all luxuries , all joys , all enchantments of the spirit , all contentments of the body that man holds dear . 
I will buy , buy , buy ! deference , respect , esteem , worship every pinchbeck grace of life the market of a trivial world can furnish forth . 
I have lost much time , and chosen badly heretofore , but let that pass I was ignorant then , and could but take for best what seemed so . 
They are not gifts , but merely lendings . 
Pleasure , Love , Fame , Riches they are but temporary disguises for lasting realities Pain , Grief , Shame , Poverty . 
The fairy said true in all her store there was but one gift which was precious , only one that was not valueless . 
Bring it ! I am weary , I would rest . 
Chapter V The fairy came , bringing again four of the gifts , but Death was wanting . 
She said I gave it to a mother's pet , a little child . 
It was ignorant , but trusted me , asking me to choose for it . 
You did not ask me to choose . 
Oh , miserable me ! What is left for me ? What not even you have deserved the wanton insult of Old Age . 
Please do not use my name in any way . 
Please do not even divulge that fact that I own a machine . 
I don't like to write letters , and so I don't want people to know I own this curiosity breeding little joker . 
A note was sent to Mr. Clemens asking him if the letter was genuine and whether he really had a typewriter as long ago as that . 
Mr. Clemens replied that his best answer is the following chapter from his unpublished autobiography . 
VILLA QUARTO , FLORENCE , JANUARY . 
Dictating autobiography to a typewriter is a new experience for me , but it goes very well , and is going to save time and language the kind of language that soothes vexation . 
I have dictated to a typewriter before but not autobiography . 
Between that experience and the present one there lies a mighty gap more than thirty years ! It is sort of lifetime . 
In that wide interval much has happened to the type machine as well as to the rest of us . 
At the beginning of that interval a type machine was a curiosity . 
The person who owned one was a curiosity , too . 
But now it is the other way about the person who DOESN'T own one is a curiosity . 
I saw a type machine for the first time in what year ? I suppose it was because Nasby was with me at the time , and it was in Boston . 
We must have been lecturing , or we could not have been in Boston , I take it . 
I quitted the platform that season . 
But never mind about that , it is no matter . 
Nasby and I saw the machine through a window , and went in to look at it . 
So he put his type girl to work , and we timed her by the watch . 
She actually did the fifty seven in sixty seconds . 
We were partly convinced , but said it probably couldn't happen again . 
We timed the girl over and over again with the same result always she won out . 
She did her work on narrow slips of paper , and we pocketed them as fast as she turned them out , to show as curiosities . 
The price of the machine was one hundred and twenty five dollars . 
I bought one , and we went away very much excited . 
At the hotel we got out our slips and were a little disappointed to find that they contained the same words . 
The girl had economized time and labor by using a formula which she knew by heart . 
If the machine survived IF it survived experts would come to the front , by and by , who would double the girl's output without a doubt . 
They would do one hundred words a minute my talking speed on the platform . 
That score has long ago been beaten . 
They carried off many reams of the boy and his burning deck . 
, and my last until now . 
The machine did not do both capitals and lower case , but only capitals . 
Gothic capitals they were , and sufficiently ugly . 
I remember the first letter I dictated . 
it was to Edward Bok , who was a boy then . 
I was not acquainted with him at that time . 
His present enterprising spirit is not new he had it in that early day . 
He was accumulating autographs , and was not content with mere signatures , he wanted a whole autograph LETTER . 
I furnished it in type written capitals , SIGNATURE AND ALL . 
It was long it was a sermon it contained advice also reproaches . 
In the year the young woman copied a considerable part of a book of mine ON THE MACHINE . 
That book must have been THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER . 
I wrote the first half of it in , the rest of it in . 
My machinist type copied a book for me in , so I concluded it was that one . 
That early machine was full of caprices , full of defects devilish ones . 
It had as many immoralities as the machine of today has virtues . 
After a year or two I found that it was degrading my character , so I thought I would give it to Howells . 
He was reluctant , for he was suspicious of novelties and unfriendly toward them , and he remains so to this day . 
He had great confidence in me , and I got him to believe things about the machine that I did not believe myself . 
He took it home to Boston , and my morals began to improve , but his have never recovered . 
He kept it six months , and then returned it to me . 
I gave it away twice after that , but it wouldn't stay it came back . 
As soon as he got wiser and better he traded it to a heretic for a side saddle which he could not use , and there my knowledge of its history ends . 
ITALIAN WITHOUT A MASTER It is almost a fortnight now that I am domiciled in a medieval villa in the country , a mile or two from Florence . 
But it is not so . 
In order to be just and fair , I throw in an Italian word when I have one , and this has a good influence . 
I get the word out of the morning paper . 
I have to use it while it is fresh , for I find that Italian words do not keep in this climate . 
They fade toward night , and next morning they are gone . 
But it is no matter I get a new one out of the paper before breakfast , and thrill the domestics with it while it lasts . 
I have no dictionary , and I do not want one I can select words by the sound , or by orthographic aspect . 
Many of them have French or German or English look , and these are the ones I enslave for the day's service . 
That is , as a rule . 
It sounds Shakespearian , and probably means Avaunt and quit my sight . 
Today I have a whole phrase SONO DISPIACENTISSIMO . 
I do not know what it means , but it seems to fit in everywhere and give satisfaction . 
One of the best ones is DOV' E IL GATTO . 
It nearly always produces a pleasant surprise , therefore I save it up for places where I want to express applause or admiration . 
The fourth word has a French sound , and I think the phrase means that takes the cake . 
During my first week in the deep and dreamy stillness of this woodsy and flowery place I was without news of the outside world , and was well content without it . 
Then came a change that was to be expected the appetite for news began to rise again , after this invigorating rest . 
So I examined an Italian paper , with the idea of feeding it on that , and on that exclusively . 
On that exclusively , and without help of a dictionary . 
In this way I should surely be well protected against overloading and indigestion . 
A glance at the telegraphic page filled me with encouragement . 
There were no scare heads . 
That was good supremely good . 
The headline is a valuable thing . 
By habit you stow this muck every day , but you come by and by to take no vital interest in it indeed , you almost get tired of it . 
As a rule , forty nine fiftieths of it concerns strangers only people away off yonder , a thousand miles , two thousand miles , ten thousand miles from where you are . 
And , to my mind , one relative or neighbor mixed up in a scandal is more interesting than a whole Sodom and Gomorrah of outlanders gone rotten . 
Give me the home product every time . 
In the matter of world news there was not too much , but just about enough . 
I have had no occasion to regret it . 
Every morning I get all the news I need for the day sometimes from the headlines , sometimes from the text . 
I have never had to call for a dictionary yet . 
I read the paper with ease . 
Often I do not quite understand , often some of the details escape me , but no matter , I get the idea . 
The second line seems to mean that they enlarged the King at the Italian hospital . 
With a banquet , I suppose . 
An English banquet has that effect . 
Further Il ritorno dei Sovrani a Roma ROMA , , ore , . 
I Sovrani e le Principessine Reali si attendono a Roma domani alle ore , . 
Return of the sovereigns to Rome , you see . 
Date of the telegram , Rome , November , ten minutes before twenty three o'clock . 
The telegram seems to say , The Sovereigns and the Royal Children expect themselves at Rome tomorrow at fifty one minutes after fifteen o'clock . 
I do not know about Italian time , but I judge it begins at midnight and runs through the twenty four hours without breaking bulk . 
In the following ad , the theaters open at half past twenty . 
If these are not matinees , . 
P. M. , by my reckoning . 
Spettacolli del di TEATRO DELLA PERGOLA Opera . 
Compagnia drammatica Drago LA LEGGE . 
Programma straordinario , DON CHISCIOTTE Prezzi populari . 
The whole of that is intelligible to me and sane and rational , too except the remark about the Inauguration of a Russian Chinese . 
That one oversizes my hand . 
Il MATIN ha da Berlino che la principessa Schovenbare Waldenbure scomparve il novembre . 
Sarebbe partita col suo cocchiere . 
Twenty seven years old , and scomparve scampered on the th November . 
You see by the added detail that she departed with her coachman . 
I hope Sarebbe has not made a mistake , but I am afraid the chances are that she has . 
There are several fires also a couple of accidents . 
Lo Sciatti fu subito raccolto da alcuni cittadini , che , per mezzo della pubblica vettura n . 
, lo transporto a San Giovanni di Dio . 
Ivi il medico di guardia gli riscontro la frattura della gamba destra e alcune lievi escoriazioni giudicandolo guaribile in giorni salvo complicazioni . 
What it seems to say is this Serious Disgrace on the Old Old Bridge . 
, lost his equilibrium and fell on himself , arriving with his left leg under one of the wheels of the vehicle . 
by several citizens , who by means of public cab No. transported to St . 
I am sure I hope so myself . 
There is a great and peculiar charm about reading news scraps in a language which you are not acquainted with the charm that always goes with the mysterious and the uncertain . 
A dictionary would spoil it . 
I find it without trouble , in the morning paper a cablegram from Chicago and Indiana by way of Paris . 
All the words save one are guessable by a person ignorant of Italian Revolverate in teatro PARIGI , . 
, avendo voluto espellare uno spettatore che continuava a fumare malgrado il diviety , questo spalleggiato dai suoi amici tir o diversi colpi di rivoltella . 
Grande panico tra gli spettatori . 
manifold revolver shots great panic among the spectators . 
But it does excite me . 
It excites me because I cannot make out , for sure , what it was that moved the spectator to resist the officer . 
I was gliding along smoothly and without obstruction or accident , until I came to that word spalleggiato , then the bottom fell out . 
You notice what a rich gloom , what a somber and pervading mystery , that word sheds all over the whole Wallachian tragedy . 
That is the charm of the thing , that is the delight of it . 
This is where you begin , this is where you revel . 
If there is even the slightest slight shadow of a hint anywhere , it lies in the very meagerly suggestive fact that spalleggiato carries our word egg in its stomach . 
But are you sure , are you dead sure , that that was the way of it ? No. Then the uncertainty remains , the mystery abides , and with it the charm . 
The existing phrase books are inadequate . 
They are well enough as far as they go , but when you fall down and skin your leg they don't tell you what to say . 
It is because , if he does not know the WERE'S and the WAS'S and the MAYBE'S and the HAS BEENS'S apart , confusions and uncertainties can arise . 
He can get the idea that a thing is going to happen next week when the truth is that it has already happened week before last . 
Even more previously , sometimes . 
Further examination , further inquiry , further reflection , confirmed this judgment , and established beyond peradventure the fact that the Verb was the storm center . 
I should explain that I am speaking of legitimate verbs , those verbs which in the slang of the grammar are called Regular . 
But of these pathetic outcasts I have nothing to say . 
I do not approve of them , I do not encourage them I am prudishly delicate and sensitive , and I do not allow them to be used in my presence . 
But , as I have said , I decided to catch one of the others and break it into harness . 
I found out all these things by myself , without a teacher . 
I selected the verb AMARE , TO LOVE . 
Why , I don't know . 
It is merely habit , I suppose the first teacher chose it , Adam was satisfied , and there hasn't been a successor since with originality enough to start a fresh one . 
I will explain that a facchino is a general utility domestic . 
Mine was a horse doctor in his better days , and a very good one . 
At the end of three days the facchino doctor brigadier was ready . 
I was also ready , with a stenographer . 
We were in a room called the Rope Walk . 
This is a formidably long room , as is indicated by its facetious name , and is a good place for reviews . 
I could not keep back the tears . 
Presently Halt ! commanded the Brigadier . 
Front face ! Right dress ! Stand at ease ! One two three . 
In unison RECITE ! It was fine . 
In one noble volume of sound of all the fifty seven Haves in the Italian language burst forth in an exalting and splendid confusion . 
Then came commands About face ! Eyes front ! Helm alee hard aport ! Forward march ! and the drums let go again . 
When the last Termination had disappeared , the commander said the instruction drill would now begin , and asked for suggestions . 
I said They say I HAVE , THOU HAST , HE HAS , and so on , but they don't say WHAT . 
He said It is a good point . 
Would a dog do ? I said I did not know , but we could try a dog and see . 
So he sent out an aide de camp to give the order to add the dog . 
The six privates of the Present Tense now filed in , in charge of Sergeant AVERE , and displaying their banner . 
They formed in line of battle , and recited , one at a time , thus IO HO UN CANE , I have a dog . 
TU HAI UN CANE , thou hast a dog . 
EGLI HA UN CANE , he has a dog . 
NOI ABBIAMO UN CANE , we have a dog . 
VOI AVETE UN CANE , you have a dog . 
EGLINO HANNO UN CANE , they have a dog . 
They returned to camp , and I reflected a while . 
The commander said I fear you are disappointed . 
Yes , I said they are too monotonous , too singsong , to dead and alive they have no expression , no elocution . 
It isn't natural it could never happen in real life . 
A person who had just acquired a dog is either blame' glad or blame' sorry . 
He is not on the fence . 
I never saw a case . 
What the nation do you suppose is the matter with these people ? He thought maybe the trouble was with the dog . 
He said These are CONTADINI , you know , and they have a prejudice against dogs that is , against marimane . 
In my judgment they have taken this dog for a marimana , and have soured on him . 
I saw that the dog was a mistake , and not functionable we must try something else something , if possible , that could evoke sentiment , interest , feeling . 
What is cat , in Italian ? I asked . 
Is it a gentleman cat , or a lady ? Gentleman cat . 
How are these people as regards that animal ? We ll , they they You hesitate that is enough . 
How are they about chickens ? He tilted his eyes toward heaven in mute ecstasy . 
What is chicken , in Italian ? I asked . 
Pollo is one chicken by itself when there are enough present to constitute a plural , it is POLLI . 
Very well , polli will do . 
Which squad is detailed for duty next ? The Past Definite . 
Send out and order it to the front with chickens . 
And let them understand that we don't want any more of this cold indifference . 
He turned to me , saluting with his hand to his temple , and explained , It will inflame their interest in the poultry , sire . 
Then the squad marched in and formed up , their faces glowing with enthusiasm , and the file leader shouted EBBI POLLI , I had chickens ! Good ! I said . 
Go on , the next . 
I was enchanted , and said Now , doctor , that is something LIKE ! Chickens are the ticket , there is no doubt about it . 
What is the next squad ? The Imperfect . 
How does it go ? IO AVENA , I had , TU AVEVI , thou hadst , EGLI AVENA , he had , NOI AV Wait we've just HAD the hads . 
what are you giving me ? But this is another breed . 
But there is a distinction they are not just the same Hads . 
'Why , doctor , it is pure nonsense you know it yourself . 
Cancel his exequator and look here But you miss the point . 
You see Never mind explaining , I don't care anything about it . 
Six Hads is enough for me anybody that needs twelve , let him subscribe I don't want any stock in a Had Trust . 
Knock out the Prolonged and Indefinitely Continuous four fifths of it is water , anyway . 
Colazione is Italian for a collection , a meeting , a seance , a sitting . 
Ours is a noble house , and stretches a long way back into antiquity . 
The earliest ancestor the Twains have any record of was a friend of the family by the name of Higgins . 
This was in the eleventh century , when our people were living in Aberdeen , county of Cork , England . 
, instead of Higgins , is a mystery which none of us has ever felt much desire to stir . 
It is a kind of vague , pretty romance , and we leave it alone . 
All the old families do that way . 
Arthour Twain was a man of considerable note a solicitor on the highway in William Rufus's time . 
At about the age of thirty he went to one of those fine old English places of resort called Newgate , to see about something , and never returned again . 
While there he died suddenly . 
Augustus Twain seems to have made something of a stir about the year . 
He was a born humorist . 
He never liked any situation so much or stuck to it so long . 
Early in the fifteenth century we have Beau Twain , called the Scholar . 
He wrote a beautiful , beautiful hand . 
And he could imitate anybody's hand so closely that it was enough to make a person laugh his head off to see it . 
He had infinite sport with his talent . 
But by and by he took a contract to break stone for a road , and the roughness of the work spoiled his hand . 
Still , he enjoyed life all the time he was in the stone business , which , with inconsiderable intervals , was some forty two years . 
In fact , he died in harness . 
During all those long years he gave such satisfaction that he never was through with one contract a week till the government gave him another . 
He was a perfect pet . 
And he was always a favorite with his fellow artists , and was a conspicuous member of their benevolent secret society , called the Chain Gang . 
He always wore his hair short , had a preference for striped clothes , and died lamented by the government . 
He was a sore loss to his country . 
For he was so regular . 
Some years later we have the illustrious John Morgan Twain . 
He came over to this country with Columbus in as a passenger . 
He appears to have been of a crusty , uncomfortable disposition . 
He complained of the food all the way over , and was always threatening to go ashore unless there was a change . 
The memorable cry of Land ho ! thrilled every heart in the ship but his . 
If the ship was down by the head , and would not steer , he would go and move his trunk further aft , and then watch the effect . 
If the ship was by the stern , he would suggest to Columbus to detail some men to shift that baggage . 
In storms he had to be gagged , because his wailings about his trunk made it impossible for the men to hear the orders . 
They watched long and wonderingly for him to come up , but not even a bubble rose on the quietly ebbing tide . 
The great grandson of the Reformer flourished in sixteen hundred and something , and was known in our annals as the old Admiral , though in history he had other titles . 
He was long in command of fleets of swift vessels , well armed and manned , and did great service in hurrying up merchantmen . 
Vessels which he followed and kept his eagle eye on , always made good fair time across the ocean . 
And he would try to get the idleness and sloth out of the sailors of that ship by compelling them to take invigorating exercise and a bath . 
He called it walking a plank . 
All the pupils liked it . 
At any rate , they never found any fault with it after trying it . 
When the owners were late coming for their ships , the Admiral always burned them , so that the insurance money should not be lost . 
At last this fine old tar was cut down in the fullness of his years and honors . 
And to her dying day , his poor heart broken widow believed that if he had been cut down fifteen minutes sooner he might have been resuscitated . 
Charles Henry Twain lived during the latter part of the seventeenth century , and was a zealous and distinguished missionary . 
He converted sixteen thousand South Sea islanders , and taught them that a dog tooth necklace and a pair of spectacles was not enough clothing to come to divine service in . 
with tears in their eyes , and saying , one to another , that he was a good tender missionary , and they wished they had some more of him . 
adorned the middle of the eighteenth century , and aided General Braddock with all his heart to resist the oppressor Washington . 
It was this ancestor who fired seventeen times at our Washington from behind a tree . 
What he did say was It ain't no no use . 
'At man's so drunk he can't stan' still long enough for a man to hit him . 
I can't 'ford to fool away any more am'nition on him . 
I was born without teeth and there Richard III . 
had the advantage of me but I was born without a humpback , likewise , and there I had the advantage of him . 
My parents were neither very poor nor conspicuously honest . 
But now a thought occurs to me . 
My own history would really seem so tame contrasted with that of my ancestors , that it is simply wisdom to leave it unwritten until I am hanged . 
If some other biographies I have read had stopped with the ancestry until a like event occurred , it would have been a felicitous thing for the reading public . 
How does it strike you ? HOW TO TELL A STORY The Humorous Story an American Development . 
Its Difference from Comic and Witty Stories I do not claim that I can tell a story as it ought to be told . 
I only claim to know how a story ought to be told , for I have been almost daily in the company of the most expert story tellers for many years . 
There are several kinds of stories , but only one difficult kind the humorous . 
I will talk mainly about that one . 
The humorous story is American , the comic story is English , the witty story is French . 
The humorous story depends for its effect upon the MANNER of the telling the comic story and the witty story upon the MATTER . 
The humorous story bubbles gently along , the others burst . 
The art of telling a humorous story understand , I mean by word of mouth , not print was created in America , and has remained at home . 
It is a pathetic thing to see . 
Very often , of course , the rambling and disjointed humorous story finishes with a nub , point , snapper , or whatever you like to call it . 
Dan Setchell used it before him , Nye and Riley and others use it today . 
But the teller of the comic story does not slur the nub he shouts it at you every time . 
All of which is very depressing , and makes one want to renounce joking and lead a better life . 
Let me set down an instance of the comic method , using an anecdote which has been popular all over the world for twelve or fifteen hundred years . 
The bullets and cannon balls were flying in all directions , and presently one of the latter took the wounded man's head off without , however , his deliverer being aware of it . 
Whereupon the soldier dispossessed himself of his burden , and stood looking down upon it in great perplexity . 
At length he said It is true , sir , just as you have said . 
It takes only a minute and a half to tell that in its comic story form and isn't worth the telling , after all . 
Put into the humorous story form it takes ten minutes , and is about the funniest thing I have ever listened to as James Whitcomb Riley tells it . 
The simplicity and innocence and sincerity and unconsciousness of the old farmer are perfectly simulated , and the result is a performance which is thoroughly charming and delicious . 
This is art and fine and beautiful , and only a master can compass it but a machine could tell the other story . 
Another feature is the slurring of the point . 
A third is the dropping of a studied remark apparently without knowing it , as if one where thinking aloud . 
The fourth and last is the pause . 
Artemus Ward dealt in numbers three and four a good deal . 
The pause is an exceedingly important feature in any kind of story , and a frequently recurring feature , too . 
This story was called The Golden Arm , and was told in this fashion . 
You can practice with it yourself and mind you look out for the pause and get it right . 
THE GOLDEN ARM Once 'pon a time dey wuz a momsus mean man , en he live 'way out in de prairie all 'lone by hisself , 'cep'n he had a wife . 
En bimeby she died , en he tuck en toted her way out dah in de prairie en buried her . 
Well , she had a golden arm all solid gold , fum de shoulder down . 
He wuz pow'ful mean pow'ful en dat night he couldn't sleep , caze he want dat golden arm so bad . 
, at the great age of years . 
His memory , which did not fail him till the last , was a wonderful storehouse of interesting reminiscences . 
George was greatly respected in Dutch Flat , and it is estimated that there were , people present at his funeral . 
The last time the subject of this sketch died was in June , and until we learn the contrary , it is just to presume that he died permanently this time . 
He died greatly respected , and was followed to the grave by a vast concourse of people . 
The faithful old servant is gone ! We shall never see him more until he turns up again . 
He has closed his long and splendid career of dissolution , for the present , and sleeps peacefully , as only they sleep who have earned their rest . 
He was in all respects a remarkable man . 
He held his age better than any celebrity that has figured in history and the longer he lived the stronger and longer his memory grew . 
If he lives to die again , he will distinctly recollect the discovery of America . 
One fault I find in all the notices of his death I have quoted , and this ought to be correct . 
In them he uniformly and impartially died at the age of . 
This could not have been . 
He might have done that once , or maybe twice , but he could not have continued it indefinitely . 
Allowing that when he first died , he died at the age of , he was years old when he died last , in . 
But his age did not keep pace with his recollections . 
When he died the last time , he distinctly remembered the landing of the Pilgrims , which took place in . 
P. S. I see by the papers that this imfamous old fraud has just died again , in Arkansas . 
This makes six times that he is known to have died , and always in a new place . 
The death of Washington's body servant has ceased to be a novelty it's charm is gone the people are tired of it let it cease . 
Judging by the average published specimens of smart sayings , the rising generation of children are little better than idiots . 
I tried it once or twice , but it was not popular . 
The family were not expecting brilliant remarks from me , and so they snubbed me sometimes and spanked me the rest . 
To have simply skinned me alive and considered his duty at an end would have seemed to him criminal leniency toward one so sinning . 
He was a stern , unsmiling man , and hated all forms of precocity . 
If I had said some of the things I have referred to , and said them in his hearing , he would have destroyed me . 
He would , provided the opportunity remained with him . 
But it would not , for I would have had judgment enough to take some strychnine first and say my smart thing afterward . 
The fair record of my life has been tarnished by just one pun . 
My father overheard that , and he hunted me over four or five townships seeking to take my life . 
If I had been full grown , of course he would have been right but , child as I was , I could not know how wicked a thing I had done . 
I made one of those remarks ordinarily called smart things before that , but it was not a pun . 
Still , it came near causing a serious rupture between my father and myself . 
My father and mother , my uncle Ephraim and his wife , and one or two others were present , and the conversation turned on a name for me . 
And they did , to some children . 
I was lying there trying the India rubber rings . 
My father said Abraham is a good name . 
My grandfather was named Abraham . 
My mother said Abraham is a good name . 
Let us have Abraham for one of his names . 
I said Abraham suits the subscriber . 
My father frowned , my mother looked pleased my aunt said What a little darling it is ! My father said Isaac is a good name , and Jacob is a good name . 
My mother assented , and said No names are better . 
Let us add Isaac and Jacob to his names . 
Isaac and Jacob are good enough for yours truly . 
Pass me that rattle , if you please . 
I can't chew India rubber rings all day . 
Not a soul made a memorandum of these sayings of mine , for publication . 
I saw that , and did it myself , else they would have been utterly lost . 
I took a vicious bite out of an India rubber ring , and covertly broke the rattle over the kitten's head , but said nothing . 
Presently my father said Samuel is a very excellent name . 
I saw that trouble was coming . 
Then I put on my little frock and my little bonnet , and took my pygmy shoes in one hand and my licorice in the other , and climbed out on the floor . 
I said to myself , Now , if the worse comes to worst , I am ready . 
Then I said aloud , in a firm voice Father , I cannot , cannot wear the name of Samuel . 
My son ! Father , I mean it . 
Why ? Father , I have an invincible antipathy to that name . 
My son , this is unreasonable . 
Many great and good men have been named Samuel . 
Sir , I have yet to hear of the first instance . 
What ! There was Samuel the prophet . 
Was not he great and good ? Not so very . 
My son ! With His own voice the Lord called him . 
Yes , sir , and had to call him a couple times before he could come ! And then I sallied forth , and that stern old man sallied forth after me . 
But Mark Twain may now add a much more glorious instance to his string of trophies . 
The SATURDAY REVIEW , in its number of October th , reviews his book of travels , which has been republished in England , and reviews it seriously . 
REVIEWS OF NEW BOOKS THE INNOCENTS ABROAD . 
Lord Macaulay died too soon . 
We never felt this so deeply as when we finished the last chapter of the above named extravagant work . 
Curious is too tame a word wherewith to describe the imposing insanity of this work . 
There is no word that is large enough or long enough . 
Let us , therefore , photograph a passing glimpse of book and author , and trust the rest to the reader . 
In Florence he was so annoyed by beggars that he pretends to have seized and eaten one in a frantic spirit of revenge . 
There is , of course , no truth in this . 
It is a sufficient comment upon this statement to remark that even a cast iron program would not have lasted so long under such circumstances . 
In Greece he plainly betrays both fright and flight upon one occasion , but with frozen effrontery puts the latter in this falsely tamed form We SIDLED toward the Piraeus . 
He states that a growing youth among his ship's passengers was in the constant habit of appeasing his hunger with soap and oakum between meals . 
These statements are unworthy a moment's attention . 
Mr. Twain or any other foreigner who did such a thing in Jerusalem would be mobbed , and would infallibly lose his life . 
But why go on ? Why repeat more of his audacious and exasperating falsehoods ? Let us close fittingly with this one he affirms that in the mosque of St . 
Such statements are simply lies there is no other name for them . 
It puts us out of patience to note that the simpleton is densely unconscious that Lucrezia Borgia ever existed off the stage . 
He is vulgarly ignorant of all foreign languages , but is frank enough to criticize , the Italians' use of their own tongue . 
In another place he commits the bald absurdity of putting the phrase tare an ouns into an Italian's mouth . 
In Rome he unhesitatingly believes the legend that St . 
A wiser person would have kept such a thing discreetly to himself , but with this harmless creature everything comes out . 
We have thus spoken freely of this man's stupefying simplicity and innocence , but we cannot deal similarly with his colossal ignorance . 
We do not know where to begin . 
And if we knew where to begin , we certainly would not know where to leave off . 
We will give one specimen , and one only . 
The book is absolutely dangerous , considering the magnitude and variety of its misstatements , and the convincing confidence with which they are made . 
And yet it is a text book in the schools of America . 
When we see a monk with a book and a pen , looking tranquilly up to heaven , trying to think of a word , we know that that is St . 
Because we know that he always went flying light in the matter of baggage . 
When we see other monks looking tranquilly up to heaven , but having no trade mark , we always ask who those parties are . 
We do this because we humbly wish to learn . 
That we have shown this to be a remarkable book , we think no one will deny . 
That is a pernicious book to place in the hands of the confiding and uniformed , we think we have also shown . 
That the book is a deliberate and wicked creation of a diseased mind , is apparent upon every page . 
These matters are not only new , but are well worth knowing . 
It is a pity the author did not put in more of the same kind . 
His book is well written and is exceedingly entertaining , and so it just barely escaped being quite valuable also . 
Latterly I have received several letters , and see a number of newspaper paragraphs , all upon a certain subject , and all of about the same tenor . 
I here give honest specimens . 
WAS WRITTEN BY MYSELF , EVERY LINE OF IT The HERALD says the richest thing out is the serious critique in the London SATURDAY REVIEW , on Mark Twain's INNOCENTS ABROAD . 
I used to think that your writings were pretty good , but after reading the criticism in THE GALAXY from the LONDON REVIEW , have discovered what an ass I must have been . 
It is as rich a thing as I ever read . 
As I read his article in THE GALAXY , I could imagine him giving vent to many a hearty laugh . 
He is a magnificent humorist himself . 
I stand guilty of the authorship of the article , but I did not mean any harm . 
I never saw a copy of the real SATURDAY REVIEW criticism until after my burlesque was written and mailed to the printer . 
But when I did get hold of a copy , I found it to be vulgar , awkwardly written , ill natured , and entirely serious and in earnest . 
The gentleman who wrote the newspaper paragraph above quoted had not been misled as to its character . 
If any man doubts my word now , I will kill him . 
No , I will not kill him I will win his money . 
It is from the Cincinnati ENQUIRER Nothing is more uncertain than the value of a fine cigar . 
Nine smokers out of ten would prefer an ordinary domestic article , three for a quarter , to fifty cent Partaga , if kept in ignorance of the cost of the latter . 
The flavor of the Partaga is too delicate for palates that have been accustomed to Connecticut seed leaf . 
So it is with humor . 
The finer it is in quality , the more danger of its not being recognized at all . 
Even Mark Twain has been taken in by an English review of his INNOCENTS ABROAD . 
Mark Twain is by no means a coarse humorist , but the Englishman's humor is so much finer than his , that he mistakes it for solid earnest , and lafts most consumedly . 
A man who cannot learn stands in his own light . 
And then I will occupy a back seat and enjoy the cordial applause . 
Mark Twain at last sees that the SATURDAY REVIEW'S criticism of his INNOCENTS ABROAD was not serious , and he is intensely mortified at the thought of having been so badly sold . 
He takes the only course left him , and in the last GALAXY claims that HE wrote the criticism himself , and published it in THE GALAXY to sell the public . 
This is ingenious , but unfortunately it is not true . 
The best thing for Mark to do will be to admit that he was sold , and say no more about it . 
The above is from the Cincinnati ENQUIRER , and is a falsehood . 
, publishers , Broadway , New York , as my backers . 
Any one in New York , authorized by the ENQUIRER , will receive prompt attention . 
It is an easy and profitable way for the ENQUIRER people to prove that they have not uttered a pitiful , deliberate falsehood in the above paragraphs . 
Will they swallow that falsehood ignominiously , or will they send an agent to THE GALAXY office . 
I think the Cincinnati ENQUIRER must be edited by children . 
A LETTER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY Riverdale on the Hudson , OCTOBER , . 
Twelve tons early greenbacks , range size , suitable for cooking . 
Eight barrels seasoned and cent postal currency , vintage of , eligible for kindlings . 
AMENDED OBITUARIES TO THE EDITOR Sir , I am approaching seventy it is in sight it is only three years away . 
Necessarily , I must go soon . 
I wish to speak of only one of these matters at this time Obituaries . 
Of necessity , an Obituary is a thing which cannot be so judiciously edited by any hand as by that of the subject of it . 
The Verdicts , you understand that is the danger line . 
With this explanation of my motives , I will now ask you of your courtesy to make an appeal for me to the public press . 
My address is simply New York City I have no other that is permanent and not transient . 
, and send the bill to Yours very respectfully . 
The ink warranted to be the kind used by the very best artists . 
A MONUMENT TO ADAM Some one has revealed to the TRIBUNE that I once suggested to Rev . 
Thomas K. Beecher , of Elmira , New York , that we get up a monument to Adam , and that Mr. Beecher favored the project . 
There is more to it than that . 
The matter started as a joke , but it came somewhat near to materializing . 
It is long ago thirty years . 
Mr. Darwin's DESCENT OF MAN has been in print five or six years , and the storm of indignation raised by it was still raging in pulpits and periodicals . 
In tracing the genesis of the human race back to its sources , Mr. Darwin had left Adam out altogether . 
We had monkeys , and missing links , and plenty of other kinds of ancestors , but no Adam . 
Two bankers came forward and took hold of the matter not for fun , not for sentiment , but because they saw in the monument certain commercial advantages for the town . 
The project had seemed gently humorous before it was more than that now , with this stern business gravity injected into it . 
The bankers discussed the monument with me . 
They proposed an indestructible memorial , to cost twenty five thousand dollars . 
People would come from every corner of the globe and stop off to look at it , no tour of the world would be complete that left out Adam's monument . 
We got designs made some of them came from Paris . 
So I sent it to General Joseph R. Hawley , who was then in the House , and he said he would present it . 
But he did not do it . 
I think he explained that when he came to read it he was afraid of it it was too serious , to gushy , too sentimental the House might take it for earnest . 
We ought to have carried out our monument scheme we could have managed it without any great difficulty , and Elmira would now be the most celebrated town in the universe . 
Apparently mental telegraphy is still in business . 
It is odd but the freaks of mental telegraphy are usually odd . 
TO THE EDITOR OF HARPER'S WEEKLY Dear Sir and Kinsman , Let us have done with this frivolous talk . 
Confession of an old crime and deliberate perpetration of a new one for deceased's contribution is a robbery of his heirs . 
Shall the Board decline bequests because they stand for one of these offenses every time and generally for both ? Allow me to continue . 
The charge must persistently and resentfully and remorselessly dwelt upon is that Mr. Rockefeller's contribution is incurably tainted by perjury perjury proved against him in the courts . 
IT MAKES US SMILE down in my place ! Because there isn't a rich man in your vast city who doesn't perjure himself every year before the tax board . 
They are all caked with perjury , many layers thick . 
Iron clad , so to speak . 
If there is one that isn't , I desire to acquire him for my museum , and will pay Dinosaur rates . 
Will you say it isn't infraction of the law , but only annual evasion of it ? Comfort yourselves with that nice distinction if you like FOR THE PRESENT . 
To return to my muttons . 
Its delicious unconscious ridiculousness , and its enchanting na ivet'e , as are supreme and unapproachable , in their way , as are Shakespeare's sublimities . 
Every scribbler , almost , has had his little fling at it , at one time or another I had mine fifteen years ago . 
Many persons have believed that this book's miraculous stupidities were studied and disingenuous but no one can read the volume carefully through and keep that opinion . 
The amplest proof of this crops out somewhere or other upon each and every page . 
that may be worth the acceptation of the studious persons , and especially of the Youth , at which we dedicate him particularly . 
One cannot open this book anywhere and not find richness . 
To prove that this is true , I will open it at random and copy the page I happen to stumble upon . 
Here is the result DIALOGUE For To See the Town Anothony , go to accompany they gentilsmen , do they see the town . 
We won't to see all that is it remarquable here . 
Come with me , if you please . 
I shall not folget nothing what can to merit your attention . 
Here we are near to cathedral will you come in there ? We will first to see him in oudside , after we shall go in there for to look the interior . 
Admire this master piece gothic architecture's . 
The chasing of all they figures is astonishing' indeed . 
The cupola and the nave are not less curious to see . 
What is this palace how I see yonder ? It is the town hall . 
And this tower here at this side ? It is the Observatory . 
The bridge is very fine , it have ten arches , and is constructed of free stone . 
The streets are very layed out by line and too paved . 
What is the circuit of this town ? Two leagues . 
There is it also hospitals here ? It not fail them . 
What are then the edifices the worthest to have seen ? It is the arsnehal , the spectacle's hall , the Cusiomhouse , and the Purse . 
We are going too see the others monuments such that the public pawnbroker's office , the plants garden's , the money office's , the library . 
That it shall be for another day we are tired . 
DIALOGUE To Inform One'self of a Person How is that gentilman who you did speak by and by ? Is a German . 
I did think him Englishman . 
He is of the Saxony side . 
He speak the french very well . 
The Spanishesmen believe him Spanishing , and the Englishes , Englishman . 
It is difficult to enjoy well so much several languages . 
ADVICE TO LITTLE GIRLS Good little girls ought not to make mouths at their teachers for every trifling offense . 
This retaliation should only be resorted to under peculiarly aggravated circumstances . 
And you ought not to attempt to make a forcible swap with her unless your conscience would justify you in it , and you know you are able to do it . 
In the artless simplicity natural to this time of life , he will regard it as a perfectly fair transaction . 
In all ages of the world this eminently plausible fiction has lured the obtuse infant to financial ruin and disaster . 
It is better to scald him a little , for then you obtain desirable results . 
If your mother tells you to do a thing , it is wrong to reply that you won't . 
It is better and more becoming to intimate that you will do as she bids you , and then afterward act quietly in the matter according to the dictates of your best judgment . 
Therefore you ought to respect their little prejudices , and humor their little whims , and put up with their little foibles until they get to crowding you too much . 
Good little girls always show marked deference for the aged . 
You ought never to sass old people unless they sass you first . 
POST MORTEM POETRY In Philadelphia they have a custom which it would be pleasant to see adopted throughout the land . 
It is that of appending to published death notices a little verse or two of comforting poetry . 
Any one who is in the habit of reading the daily Philadelphia LEDGER must frequently be touched by these plaintive tributes to extinguished worth . 
In Philadelphia , the departure of a child is a circumstance which is not more surely followed by a burial than by the accustomed solacing poesy in the PUBLIC LEDGER . 
In that city death loses half its terror because the knowledge of its presence comes thus disguised in the sweet drapery of verse . 
, Clara , the daughter of Ephraim and Laura Hawks , aged months and days . 
Dear Lord , how could I give Clara up To any but to Thee ? A child thus mourned could not die wholly discontented . 
From the LEDGER of the same date I make the following extract , merely changing the surname , as before Becket . 
On Sunday morning , th inst . 
, John P. , infant son of George and Julia Becket , aged year , months , and days . 
, Ferguson G. , the son of William L. and Martha Theresa Wagner , aged weeks and day . 
Dear Lord , how could I give Ferguson up To any but to Thee ? It is strange what power the reiteration of an essentially poetical thought has upon one's feelings . 
When we take up the LEDGER and read the poetry about little Clara , we feel an unaccountable depression of the spirits . 
When we drift further down the column and read the poetry about little Johnnie , the depression and spirits acquires and added emphasis , and we experience tangible suffering . 
When we saunter along down the column further still and read the poetry about little Ferguson , the word torture but vaguely suggests the anguish that rends us . 
, Mary C. Welch , wife of William B. Welch , and daughter of Catharine and George W. Markland , in the th year of her age . 
A mother dear , a mother kind , Has gone and left us all behind . 
Cease to weep , for tears are vain , Mother dear is out of pain . 
Farewell , husband , children dear , Serve thy God with filial fear , And meet me in the land above , Where all is peace , and joy , and love . 
could be more succinctly stated than is done in the first stanza by the surviving relatives , and no more concise and comprehensive program of farewells , post mortuary general orders , etc . 
, could be framed in any form than is done in verse by deceased in the last stanza . 
These things insensibly make us wiser and tenderer , and better . 
On the morning of the th inst . 
, Mary E. , daughter of John and Sarah F. Ball . 
'Tis sweet to rest in lively hope That when my change shall come Angels will hover round my bed , To waft my spirit home . 
The following is apparently the customary form for heads of families Burns . 
, Michael Burns , aged years . 
Dearest father , thou hast left us , Hear thy loss we deeply feel But 'tis God that has bereft us , He can all our sorrows heal . 
There is something very simple and pleasant about the following , which , in Philadelphia , seems to be the usual form for consumptives of long standing . 
, of consumption , Philip Bromley , in the th year of his age . 
Affliction sore long time he bore , Physicians were in vain Till God at last did hear him mourn , And eased him of his pain . 
That friend whom death from us has torn , We did not think so soon to part An anxious care now sinks the thorn Still deeper in our bleeding heart . 
This beautiful creation loses nothing by repetition . 
On the contrary , the oftener one sees it in the LEDGER , the more grand and awe inspiring it seems . 
With one more extract I will close Doble . 
, Samuel Pervil Worthington Doble , aged days . 
Our little Sammy's gone , His tiny spirit's fled Our little boy we loved so dear Lies sleeping with the dead . 
A tear within a father's eye , A mother's aching heart , Can only tell the agony How hard it is to part . 
The power of song can hardly be estimated . 
There is an element about some poetry which is able to make even physical suffering and death cheerful things to contemplate and consummations to be desired . 
This element is present in the mortuary poetry of Philadelphia degree of development . 
The custom I have been treating of is one that should be adopted in all the cities of the land . 
It is said that once a man of small consequence died , and the Rev . 
The friends of the deceased got up a stately funeral . 
There is no need to say that this poem is genuine and in earnest , for its proofs are written all over its face . 
An ingenious scribbler might imitate it after a fashion , but Shakespeare himself could not counterfeit it . 
, and would have gone away blessing ME , if I had let him , but I never did . 
I always stated where I got the idea . 
King William wears large bushy side whiskers , and some critics have thought that this portrait would be more complete if they were added . 
But it was not possible . 
There was not room for side whiskers and epaulets both , and so I let the whiskers go , and put in the epaulets , for the sake of style . 
That thing on his hat is an eagle . 
The Prussian eagle it is a national emblem . 
When I saw hat I mean helmet but it seems impossible to make a picture of a helmet that a body can have confidence in . 
I wish kind friends everywhere would aid me in my endeavor to attract a little attention to the GALAXY portraits . 
I feel persuaded it can be accomplished , if the course to be pursued be chosen with judgment . 
COMMENDATIONS OF THE PORTRAIT There is nothing like it in the Vatican . 
It has none of that vagueness , that dreamy spirituality about it , which many of the first critics of Arkansas have objected to in the Murillo school of Art . 
The expression is very interesting . 
It is the neatest thing in still life I have seen for years . 
The smile may be almost called unique . 
I never saw such character portrayed in a picture face before . 
There is a benignant simplicity about the execution of this work which warms the heart toward it as much , full as much , as it fascinates the eye . 
One cannot see it without longing to contemplate the artist . 
Send me the entire edition together with the plate and the original portrait and name your own price . 
And would you like to come over and stay awhile with Napoleon at Wilhelmsh ohe ? It shall not cost you a cent . 
The man that first says it thinks he has made a discovery . 
The man he says it to , thinks the same . 
It isn't merely the American that adores the Almighty Dollar , it is the human race . 
It was a dull person that invented the idea that the American's devotion to the dollar is more strenuous than another's . 
Rich American girls do buy titles , but they did not invent that idea it had been worn threadbare several hundred centuries before America was discovered . 
European girls still exploit it as briskly as ever and , when a title is not to be had for the money in hand , they buy the husband without it . 
They must put up the dot , or there is no trade . 
The commercialization of brides is substantially universal , except in America . 
It exists with us , to some little extent , but in no degree approaching a custom . 
The Englishman dearly loves a lord . 
What is the soul and source of this love ? I think the thing could be more correctly worded The human race dearly envies a lord . 
That is to say , it envies the lord's place . 
Why ? On two accounts , I think its Power and its Conspicuousness . 
It is a combination of power and conspicuousness which the man understands . 
When we understand rank , we always like to rub against it . 
When a man is conspicuous , we always want to see him . 
Also , if he will pay us an attention we will manage to remember it . 
Also , we will mention it now and then , casually sometimes to a friend , or if a friend is not handy , we will make out with a stranger . 
, and we stop there . 
But that is a mistake . 
For even they have some poor little vanities and foibles , though in this matter they are paupers as compared to us . 
A Chinese Emperor has the worship of his four hundred millions of subjects , but the rest of the world is indifferent to him . 
A Christian Emperor has the worship of his subjects and of a large part of the Christian world outside of his domains but he is a matter of indifference to all China . 
, get no worship at all outside their own little patch of sovereignty . 
Take the distinguished people along down . 
Each has his group of homage payers . 
There is something pathetic , and funny , and pretty , about this human race's fondness for contact with power and distinction , and for the reflected glory it gets out of it . 
We are unanimous in the pride we take in good and genuine compliments paid us , and distinctions conferred upon us , in attentions shown . 
There is not one of us , from the emperor down , , but is made like that . 
Do I mean attentions shown us by the guest ? No , I mean simply flattering attentions , let them come whence they may . 
We despise no source that can pay us a pleasing attention there is no source that is humble enough for that . 
You have often seen that . 
And here is that proud note again that sings in that little child's elation in being singled out , among all the company of children , for the random dog's honor conferring attentions . 
We all like these things . 
We have all heard it many and many a time . 
It was a proud distinction to be able to say those words . 
It brought envy to the speaker , a kind of glory and he basked in it and was happy through all his veins . 
And who was it he stood so close to ? The answer would cover all the grades . 
I was there , and I saw it myself . 
That is a common and envy compelling remark . 
It will be said , more or less causally , by everybody in America who has seen Prince Henry do anything , or try to . 
The man who was absent and didn't see him to anything , will scoff . 
It is his privilege and he can make capital out of it , too he will seem , even to himself , to be different from other Americans , and better . 
My life has been embittered by that kind of persons . 
Once I was received in private audience by an emperor . 
Last week I was telling a jealous person about it , and I could see him wince under it , see him bite , see him suffer . 
I revealed the whole episode to him with considerable elaboration and nice attention to detail . 
When I was through , he asked me what had impressed me most . 
I said His Majesty's delicacy . 
They told me to be sure and back out from the presence , and find the door knob as best I could it was not allowable to face around . 
It went home ! It was vitriol ! I saw the envy and disgruntlement rise in the man's face he couldn't keep it down . 
I saw him try to fix up something in his mind to take the bloom off that distinction . 
I enjoyed that , for I judged that he had his work cut out for him . 
I cannot endure a man like that . 
It is nothing to him how unkind he is , so long as he takes the bloom off . 
It is all he cares for . 
does dearly love a lord , It includes us all . 
This accounts for some of our curious tastes in mementos . 
We do love a lord and by that term I mean any person whose situation is higher than our own . 
No royal person has ever been the object of a more delirious loyalty and slavish adoration than is paid by the vast Tammany herd to its squalid idol in Wantage . 
There is not a bifurcated animal in that menagerie that would not be proud to appear in a newspaper picture in his company . 
We have a large population , but we have not a large enough one , by several millions , to furnish that man . 
He has not yet been begotten , and in fact he is not begettable . 
We all love to get some of the drippings of Conspicuousness , and we will put up with a single , humble drip , if we can't get any more . 
We may pretend otherwise , in conversation but we can't pretend it to ourselves privately and we don't . 
We of the North poke fun at the South for its fondness of titles a fondness for titles pure and simple , regardless of whether they are genuine or pinchbeck . 
We forget that whatever a Southerner likes the rest of the human race likes , and that there is no law of predilection lodged in one people that is absent from another people . 
There is no variety in the human race . 
We are all children , all children of the one Adam , and we love toys . 
We can soon acquire that Southern disease if some one will give it a start . 
It already has a start , in fact . 
The first thing a legislature does is to convene in an impressive legislative attitude , and get itself photographed . 
Except one a pathetic one . 
That is the saddest figure I know of . 
Then those same Senators smile at the self constructed majors and generals and judges of the South ! Indeed , we do love our distinctions , get them how we may . 
And we work them for all they are worth . 
In prayer we call ourselves worms of the dust , but it is only on a sort of tacit understanding that the remark shall not be taken at par . 
WE worms of the dust ! Oh , no , we are not that . 
Except in fact and we do not deal much in fact when we are contemplating ourselves . 
Many years ago , I saw a greasy youth in overalls standing by the HERALD office , with an expectant look in his face . 
Soon a large man passed out , and gave him a pat on the shoulder . 
That was what the boy was waiting for the large man's notice . 
The boy belonged down cellar in the press room , the large man was king of the upper floors , foreman of the composing room . 
The light in the boy's face was worship , the foreman was his lord , head of his group . 
The pat was an accolade . 
It was as precious to the boy as it would have been if he had been an aristocrat's son and the accolade had been delivered by his sovereign with a sword . 
The quintessence of the honor was all there there was no difference in values in truth there was no difference present except an artificial one clothes . 
In the Jardin des Plantes I have see a cat that was so vain of being the personal friend of an elephant that I was ashamed of her . 
EXTRACTS FROM ADAM'S DIARY MONDAY . 
This new creature with the long hair is a good deal in the way . 
It is always hanging around and following me about . 
I don't like this I am not used to company . 
I wish it would stay with the other animals . 
Cloudy today , wind in the east think we shall have rain . 
WE ? Where did I get that word the new creature uses it . 
Been examining the great waterfall . 
It is the finest thing on the estate , I think . 
The new creature calls it Niagara Falls why , I am sure I do not know . 
Says it LOOKS like Niagara Falls . 
That is not a reason , it is mere waywardness and imbecility . 
I get no chance to name anything myself . 
The new creature names everything that comes along , before I can get in a protest . 
And always that same pretext is offered it LOOKS like the thing . 
There is a dodo , for instance . 
Says the moment one looks at it one sees at a glance that it looks like a dodo . 
It will have to keep that name , no doubt . 
It wearies me to fret about it , and it does no good , anyway . 
Dodo ! It looks no more like a dodo than I do . 
Built me a shelter against the rain , but could not have it to myself in peace . 
I wish it would not talk it is always talking . 
That sounds like a cheap fling at the poor creature , a slur but I do not mean it so . 
The naming goes recklessly on , in spite of anything I can do . 
I had a very good name for the estate , and it was musical and pretty GARDEN OF EDEN . 
Privately , I continue to call it that , but not any longer publicly . 
The new creature says it is all woods and rocks and scenery , and therefore has no resemblance to a garden . 
Says it LOOKS like a park , and does not look like anything BUT a park . 
Consequently , without consulting me , it has been new named NIAGARA FALLS PARK . 
This is sufficiently high handed , it seems to me . 
And already there is a sign up KEEP OFF THE GRASS My life is not as happy as it was . 
The new creature eats too much fruit . 
We are going to run short , most likely . 
We again that is ITS word mine , too , now , from hearing it so much . 
Good deal of fog this morning . 
I do not go out in the fog myself . 
It goes out in all weathers , and stumps right in with its muddy feet . 
It used to be so pleasant and quiet here . 
This day is getting to be more and more trying . 
It was selected and set apart last November as a day of rest . 
I had already six of them per week before . 
This morning found the new creature trying to clod apples out of that forbidden tree . 
The new creature says its name is Eve . 
That is all right , I have no objections . 
Says it is to call it by , when I want it to come . 
I said it was superfluous , then . 
The word evidently raised me in its respect and indeed it is a large , good word and will bear repetition . 
It says it is not an It , it is a She . 
This is probably doubtful yet it is all one to me what she is were nothing to me if she would but go by herself and not talk . 
Summer resort another invention of hers just words , without any meaning . 
What is a summer resort ? But it is best not to ask her , she has such a rage for explaining . 
She has taken to beseeching me to stop going over the Falls . 
What harm does it do ? Says it makes her shudder . 
I wonder why I have always done it always liked the plunge , and coolness . 
I supposed it was what the Falls were for . 
They have no other use that I can see , and they must have been made for something . 
She says they were only made for scenery like the rhinoceros and the mastodon . 
I went over the Falls in a barrel not satisfactory to her . 
Went over in a tub still not satisfactory . 
Swam the Whirlpool and the Rapids in a fig leaf suit . 
Hence , tedious complaints about my extravagance . 
I am too much hampered here . 
What I need is a change of scene . 
I was obliged to return with her , but will presently emigrate again when occasion offers . 
Which is a pity , on some accounts . 
I believe I see what the week is for it is to give time to rest up from the weariness of Sunday . 
It seems a good idea . 
She has been climbing that tree again . 
Clodded her out of it . 
She said nobody was looking . 
Seems to consider that a sufficient justification for chancing any dangerous thing . 
The word justification moved her admiration and envy , too , I thought . 
It is a good word . 
She told me she was made out of a rib taken from my body . 
This is at least doubtful , if not more than that . 
I have not missed any rib . 
She is in much trouble about the buzzard says grass does not agree with it is afraid she can't raise it thinks it was intended to live on decayed flesh . 
The buzzard must get along the best it can with what is provided . 
We cannot overturn the whole scheme to accommodate the buzzard . 
She fell in the pond yesterday when she was looking at herself in it , which she is always doing . 
She nearly strangled , and said it was most uncomfortable . 
When night comes I shall throw them outdoors . 
I will not sleep with them again , for I find them clammy and unpleasant to lie among when a person hasn't anything on . 
She has taken up with a snake now . 
The other animals are glad , for she was always experimenting with them and bothering them and I am glad because the snake talks , and this enables me to get a rest . 
She says the snake advises her to try the fruit of the tree , and says the result will be a great and fine and noble education . 
I told her there would be another result , too it would introduce death into the world . 
I advised her to keep away from the tree . 
I have had a variegated time . 
I knew what it meant Eve had eaten that fruit , and death was come into the world . 
I found this place , outside the Park , and was fairly comfortable for a few days , but she has found me out . 
Found me out , and has named the place Tonawanda says it LOOKS like that . 
In fact I was not sorry she came , for there are but meager pickings here , and she brought some of those apples . 
I was obliged to eat them , I was so hungry . 
It was against my principles , but I find that principles have no real force except when one is well fed . 
I had never seen a person titter and blush before , and to me it seemed unbecoming and idiotic . 
She said I would soon know how it was myself . 
They are uncomfortable , it is true , but stylish , and that is the main point about clothes . 
I find she is a good deal of a companion . 
I see I should be lonesome and depressed without her , now that I have lost my property . 
Another thing , she says it is ordered that we work for our living hereafter . 
I said I was innocent , then , for I had not eaten any chestnuts . 
She said the Serpent informed her that chestnut was a figurative term meaning an aged and moldy joke . 
She asked me if I had made one just at the time of the catastrophe . 
I was obliged to admit that I had made one to myself , though not aloud . 
Alas , I am indeed to blame . 
Would that I were not witty oh , that I had never had that radiant thought ! NEXT YEAR . 
We have named it Cain . 
It resembles us in some ways , and may be a relation . 
That is what she thinks , but this is an error , in my judgment . 
I still think it is a fish , but she is indifferent about what it is , and will not let me have it to try . 
I do not understand this . 
The coming of the creature seems to have changed her whole nature and made her unreasonable about experiments . 
She thinks more of it than she does of any of the other animals , but is not able to explain why . 
Her mind is disordered everything shows it . 
Sometimes she carries the fish in her arms half the night when it complains and wants to get to the water . 
I have never seen her do like this with any other fish , and it troubles me greatly . 
I have not seen a fish before that could laugh . 
I have come to like Sunday myself . 
Superintending all the week tires a body so . 
There ought to be more Sundays . 
In the old days they were tough , but now they come handy . 
I cannot quite make out what it is . 
It makes curious devilish noises when not satisfied , and says goo goo when it is . 
It merely lies around , and mostly on its back , with its feet up . 
I have not seen any other animal do that before . 
I said I believed it was an enigma but she only admired the word without understanding it . 
In my judgment it is either an enigma or some king of a bug . 
If it dies , I will take it apart and see what its arrangements are . 
I never had a thing perplex me so . 
The perplexity augments instead of diminishing . 
It has ceased from lying around , and goes about on its four legs now . 
It is built much as we are , but its method of traveling shows that it is not of our breed . 
Still it is a curious and interesting variety , and has not been catalogued before . 
As I discovered it , I have felt justified in securing the credit of the discovery by attaching my name to it , and hence have called it KANGAROORUM ADAMIENSIS . 
It must have been a young one when it came , for it has grown exceedingly since . 
Coercion does not modify this , but has the contrary effect . 
For this reason I discontinued the system . 
She reconciles it by persuasion , and by giving it things which she had previously told me she wouldn't give it . 
As already observed , I was not at home when it first came , and she told me she found it in the woods . 
But I find none , nor any vestige of any and strangest of all , no tracks . 
I catch all small animals except that one animals that merely go into the trap out of curiosity , I think , to see what the milk is there for . 
The Kangaroo still continues to grow , which is very strange and perplexing . 
I never knew one to be so long getting its growth . 
It has fur on its head now not like kangaroo fur , but exactly like our hair except that it is much finer and softer , and instead of being black is red . 
I am like to lose my mind over the capricious and harassing developments of this unclassifiable zoological freak . 
If I could catch another one but that is hopeless it is a new variety , and the only sample this is plain . 
I pity the poor noisy little animal , but there is nothing I can do to make it happy . 
If I could tame it but that is out of the question the more I try the worse I seem to make it . 
It grieves me to the heart to see it in its little storms of sorrow and passion . 
I wanted to let it go , but she wouldn't hear of it . 
That seemed cruel and not like her and yet she may be right . 
It might be lonelier than ever for since I cannot find another one , how could IT ? FIVE MONTHS LATER . 
It is not a kangaroo . 
No , for it supports itself by holding to her finger , and thus goes a few steps on its hind legs , and then falls down . 
It is probably some kind of a bear and yet it has no tail as yet and no fur , except upon its head . 
It still keeps on growing that is a curious circumstance , for bears get their growth earlier than this . 
Bears are dangerous since our catastrophe and I shall not be satisfied to have this one prowling about the place much longer without a muzzle on . 
She was not like this before she lost her mind . 
There is no danger yet it has only one tooth . 
It has no tail yet . 
It makes more noise now than it ever did before and mainly at night . 
But I shall go over , mornings , to breakfast , and see if it has more teeth . 
I have been off hunting and fishing a month , up in the region that she calls Buffalo I don't know why , unless it is because there are not any buffaloes there . 
Meantime the bear has learned to paddle around all by itself on its hind legs , and says poppa and momma . 
It is certainly a new species . 
This imitation of speech , taken together with general absence of fur and entire absence of tail , sufficiently indicates that this is a new kind of bear . 
The further study of it will be exceedingly interesting . 
Meantime I will go off on a far expedition among the forests of the north and make an exhaustive search . 
There must certainly be another one somewhere , and this one will be less dangerous when it has company of its own species . 
I will go straightway but I will muzzle this one first . 
It has been a weary , weary hunt , yet I have had no success . 
In the mean time , without stirring from the home estate , she has caught another one ! I never saw such luck . 
I might have hunted these woods a hundred years , I never would have run across that thing . 
I have been comparing the new one with the old one , and it is perfectly plain that they are of the same breed . 
It would be an irreparable loss to science if they should get away . 
The new one is as ugly as the old one was at first has the same sulphur and raw meat complexion and the same singular head without any fur on it . 
They are BOYS we found it out long ago . 
It was their coming in that small immature shape that puzzled us we were not used to it . 
There are some girls now . 
Abel is a good boy , but if Cain had stayed a bear it would have improved him . 
After all these years , I see that I was mistaken about Eve in the beginning it is better to live outside the Garden with her than inside it without her . 
At first I thought she talked too much but now I should be sorry to have that voice fall silent and pass out of my life . 
Blessed be the chestnut that brought us near together and taught me to know the goodness of her heart and the sweetness of her spirit ! EVE'S DIARY Translated from the Original SATURDAY . 
I am almost a whole day old , now . 
That is as it seems to me . 
And it must be so , for if there was a day before yesterday I was not there when it happened , or I should remember it . 
It could be , of course , that it did happen , and that I was not noticing . 
Very well I will be very watchful now , and if any day before yesterdays happen I will make a note of it . 
It will be best to start right and not let the record get confused , for some instinct tells me that these details are going to be important to the historian some day . 
Then if I am an experiment , am I the whole of it ? No , I think not I think the rest of it is part of it . 
I am the main part of it , but I think the rest of it has its share in the matter . 
Is my position assured , or do I have to watch it and take care of it ? The latter , perhaps . 
Some instinct tells me that eternal vigilance is the price of supremacy . 
That is a good phrase , I think , for one so young . 
Everything looks better today than it did yesterday . 
Noble and beautiful works of art should not be subjected to haste and this majestic new world is indeed a most noble and beautiful work . 
And certainly marvelously near to being perfect , notwithstanding the shortness of the time . 
There are too many stars in some places and not enough in others , but that can be remedied presently , no doubt . 
The moon got loose last night , and slid down and fell out of the scheme a very great loss it breaks my heart to think of it . 
There isn't another thing among the ornaments and decorations that is comparable to it for beauty and finish . 
It should have been fastened better . 
If we can only get it back again But of course there is no telling where it went to . 
And besides , whoever gets it will hide it I know it because I would do it myself . 
For I do love moons , they are so pretty and so romantic . 
I wish we had five or six I would never go to bed I should never get tired lying on the moss bank and looking up at them . 
Stars are good , too . 
I wish I could get some to put in my hair . 
But I suppose I never can . 
You would be surprised to find how far off they are , for they do not look it . 
It was because I am left handed and cannot throw good . 
I had never seen a tiger before , but I knew them in a minute by the stripes . 
If I could have one of those skins , it would make a lovely gown . 
Today I am getting better ideas about distances . 
I think it is a very good one for one so young . 
I followed the other Experiment around , yesterday afternoon , at a distance , to see what it might be for , if I could . 
But I was not able to make out . 
I think it is a man . 
I had never seen a man , but it looked like one , and I feel sure that that is what it is . 
I realize that I feel more curiosity about it than about any of the other reptiles . 
If it is a reptile , and I suppose it is for it has frowzy hair and blue eyes , and looks like a reptile . 
It has no hips it tapers like a carrot when it stands , it spreads itself apart like a derrick so I think it is a reptile , though it may be architecture . 
At last it was a good deal worried , and climbed a tree . 
I waited a good while , then gave it up and went home . 
Today the same thing over . 
I've got it up the tree again . 
It is up there yet . 
But that is a subterfuge Sunday isn't the day of rest Saturday is appointed for that . 
It looks to me like a creature that is more interested in resting than it anything else . 
It would tire me to rest so much . 
It tires me just to sit around and watch the tree . 
I do wonder what it is for I never see it do anything . 
They returned the moon last night , and I was SO happy ! I think it is very honest of them . 
It slid down and fell off again , but I was not distressed there is no need to worry when one has that kind of neighbors they will fetch it back . 
I wish I could do something to show my appreciation . 
I would like to send them some stars , for we have more than we can use . 
I mean I , not we , for I can see that the reptile cares nothing for such things . 
It has low tastes , and is not kind . 
One of the clods took it back of the ear , and it used language . 
It gave me a thrill , for it was the first time I had ever heard speech , except my own . 
I did not understand the words , but they seemed expressive . 
If this reptile is a man , it isn't an IT , is it ? That wouldn't be grammatical , would it ? I think it would be HE . 
In that case one would parse it thus nominative , HE dative , HIM possessive , HIS'N . 
Well , I will consider it a man and call it he until it turns out to be something else . 
This will be handier than having so many uncertainties . 
All the week I tagged around after him and tried to get acquainted . 
I had to do the talking , because he was shy , but I didn't mind it . 
He seemed pleased to have me around , and I used the sociable we a good deal , because it seemed to flatter him to be included . 
We are getting along very well indeed , now , and getting better and better acquainted . 
He does not try to avoid me any more , which is a good sign , and shows that he likes to have me with him . 
That pleases me , and I study to be useful to him in every way I can , so as to increase his regard . 
He can't think of a rational name to save him , but I do not let him see that I am aware of his defect . 
Whenever a new creature comes along I name it before he has time to expose himself by an awkward silence . 
In this way I have saved him many embarrassments . 
I have no defect like this . 
The minute I set eyes on an animal I know what it is . 
I seem to know just by the shape of the creature and the way it acts what animal it is . 
When the dodo came along he thought it was a wildcat I saw it in his eye . 
And I was careful not to do it in a way that could hurt his pride . 
That was very agreeable , and I thought of it more than once with gratification before I slept . 
How little a thing can make us happy when we feel that we have earned it ! THURSDAY . 
Yesterday he avoided me and seemed to wish I would not talk to him . 
It is pleasant again , now , and I am happy but those were heavy days I do not think of them when I can help it . 
I tried to get him some of those apples , but I cannot learn to throw straight . 
I failed , but I think the good intention pleased him . 
They are forbidden , and he says I shall come to harm but so I come to harm through pleasing him , why shall I care for that harm ? MONDAY . 
This morning I told him my name , hoping it would interest him . 
But he did not care for it . 
If he should tell me his name , I would care . 
I think it would be pleasanter in my ears than any other sound . 
Perhaps it is because he is not bright , and is sensitive about it and wishes to conceal it . 
It is such a pity that he should feel so , for brightness is nothing it is in the heart that the values lie . 
I wish I could make him understand that a loving good heart is riches , and riches enough , and that without it intellect is poverty . 
Although he talks so little , he has quite a considerable vocabulary . 
This morning he used a surprisingly good word . 
He evidently recognized , himself , that it was a good one , for he worked in in twice afterward , casually . 
It was good casual art , still it showed that he possesses a certain quality of perception . 
Without a doubt that seed can be made to grow , if cultivated . 
Where did he get that word ? I do not think I have ever used it . 
No , he took no interest in my name . 
I tried to hide my disappointment , but I suppose I did not succeed . 
I went away and sat on the moss bank with my feet in the water . 
It is where I go when I hunger for companionship , some one to look at , some one to talk to . 
It is not enough that lovely white body painted there in the pool but it is something , and something is better than utter loneliness . 
It IS a good friend to me , and my only one it is my sister . 
That first time that she forsook me ! ah , I shall never forget that never , never . 
I never doubted her afterward . 
And it was so she always did . 
At night she would not come if it was dark , for she was a timid little thing but if there was a moon she would come . 
I am not afraid of the dark , but she is younger than I am she was born after I was . 
Many and many are the visits I have paid her she is my comfort and my refuge when my life is hard and it is mainly that . 
All the morning I was at work improving the estate and I purposely kept away from him in the hope that he would get lonely and come . 
But he did not come . 
Nothing would have come of it , for he does not care for flowers . 
He called them rubbish , and cannot tell one from another , and thinks it is superior to feel like that . 
I went there , and there was a pinch of delicate pink dust in the hole . 
I put my finger in , to feel it , and said OUCH ! and took it out again . 
It was a cruel pain . 
I was curious to know what the pink dust was . 
Suddenly the name of it occurred to me , though I had never heard of it before . 
It was FIRE ! I was as certain of it as a person could be of anything in the world . 
So without hesitation I named it that fire . 
No he would not care for it . 
Then he asked what it was . 
Ah , it was too bad that he should ask such a direct question . 
I had to answer it , of course , and I did . 
I said it was fire . 
If it annoyed him that I should know and he must ask that was not my fault I had no desire to annoy him . 
After a pause he asked How did it come ? Another direct question , and it also had to have a direct answer . 
The fire was traveling farther and farther off . 
He went to the edge of the burned place and stood looking down , and said What are these ? Fire coals . 
He picked up one to examine it , but changed his mind and put it down again . 
There were ashes , gray and soft and delicate and pretty I knew what they were at once . 
And the embers I knew the embers , too . 
I found my apples , and raked them out , and was glad for I am very young and my appetite is active . 
But I was disappointed they were all burst open and spoiled . 
Spoiled apparently but it was not so they were better than raw ones . 
Fire is beautiful some day it will be useful , I think . 
I saw him again , for a moment , last Monday at nightfall , but only for a moment . 
I was hoping he would praise me for trying to improve the estate , for I had meant well and had worked hard . 
But he was not pleased , and turned away and left me . 
He was also displeased on another account I tried once more to persuade him to stop going over the Falls . 
That was because the fire had revealed to me a new passion quite new , and distinctly different from love , grief , and those others which I had already discovered FEAR . 
And it is horrible ! I wish I had never discovered it it gives me dark moments , it spoils my happiness , it makes me shiver and tremble and shudder . 
But I could not persuade him , for he has not discovered fear yet , and so he could not understand me . 
Extract from Adam's Diary Perhaps I ought to remember that she is very young , a mere girl and make allowances . 
If she could quiet down and keep still a couple minutes at a time , it would be a reposeful spectacle . 
If there is anything on the planet that she is not interested in it is not in my list . 
There are animals that I am indifferent to , but it is not so with her . 
She has no discrimination , she takes to all of them , she thinks they are all treasures , every new one is welcome . 
She wanted to domesticate it , I wanted to make it a present of the homestead and move out . 
Still , her heart was set upon having that monster , and she couldn't give it up . 
She thought we could start a dairy with it , and wanted me to help milk it but I wouldn't it was too risky . 
The sex wasn't right , and we hadn't any ladder anyway . 
Then she wanted to ride it , and look at the scenery . 
Was she satisfied now ? No. Nothing ever satisfies her but demonstration untested theories are not in her line , and she won't have them . 
It is the right spirit , I concede it it attracts me I feel the influence of it if I were with her more I think I should take it up myself . 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday and today all without seeing him . 
It is a long time to be alone still , it is better to be alone than unwelcome . 
I HAD to have company I was made for it , I think so I made friends with the animals . 
I think they are perfect gentlemen . 
All these days we have had such good times , and it hasn't been lonesome for me , ever . 
Lonesome ! No , I should say not . 
When we are on the march , it is an imposing sight there's nothing like it anywhere . 
He hoists me up with his trunk , but I can get off myself when we are ready to camp , he sits and I slide down the back way . 
The birds and animals are all friendly to each other , and there are no disputes about anything . 
It shows that they are brighter than I am , for I want to be the principal Experiment myself and I intend to be , too . 
I have learned a number of things , and am educated , now , but I wasn't at first . 
I was ignorant at first . 
I have experimented and experimented until now I know it never does run uphill , except in the dark . 
I know it does in the dark , because the pool never goes dry , which it would , of course , if the water didn't come back in the night . 
It is best to prove things by actual experiment then you KNOW whereas if you depend on guessing and supposing and conjecturing , you never get educated . 
And it is delightful to have it that way , it makes the world so interesting . 
If there wasn't anything to find out , it would be dull . 
Even trying to find out and not finding out is just as interesting as trying to find out and finding out , and I don't know but more so . 
The secret of the water was a treasure until I GOT it then the excitement all went away , and I recognized a sense of loss . 
But I shall find a way then THAT excitement will go . 
I think there are many things to learn yet I hope so and by economizing and not hurrying too fast I think they will last weeks and weeks . 
When you cast up a feather it sails away on the air and goes out of sight then you throw up a clod and it doesn't . 
It comes down , every time . 
I have tried it and tried it , and it is always so . 
I wonder why it is ? Of course it DOESN'T come down , but why should it SEEM to ? I suppose it is an optical illusion . 
I mean , one of them is . 
I don't know which one . 
By watching , I know that the stars are not going to last . 
I have seen some of the best ones melt and run down the sky . 
Since one can melt , they can all melt since they can all melt , they can all melt the same night . 
That sorrow will come I know it . 
After the Fall When I look back , the Garden is a dream to me . 
It was beautiful , surpassingly beautiful , enchantingly beautiful and now it is lost , and I shall not see it any more . 
The Garden is lost , but I have found HIM , and am content . 
He loves me as well as he can I love him with all the strength of my passionate nature , and this , I think , is proper to my youth and sex . 
I think that this must be so . 
Yet I ask him to sing , because I wish to learn to like everything he is interested in . 
I am sure I can learn , because at first I could not stand it , but now I can . 
It sours the milk , but it doesn't matter I can get used to that kind of milk . 
It is not on account of his brightness that I love him no , it is not that . 
He is not to blame for his brightness , such as it is , for he did not make it himself he is as God make him , and that is sufficient . 
There was a wise purpose in it , THAT I know . 
In time it will develop , though I think it will not be sudden and besides , there is no hurry he is well enough just as he is . 
It is not on account of his gracious and considerate ways and his delicacy that I love him . 
No , he has lacks in this regard , but he is well enough just so , and is improving . 
It is not on account of his industry that I love him no , it is not that . 
I think he has it in him , and I do not know why he conceals it from me . 
It is my only pain . 
Otherwise he is frank and open with me , now . 
I am sure he keeps nothing from me but this . 
It is not on account of his education that I love him no , it is not that . 
He is self educated , and does really know a multitude of things , but they are not so . 
It is not on account of his chivalry that I love him no , it is not that . 
He told on me , but I do not blame him it is a peculiarity of sex , I think , and he did not make his sex . 
Then why is it that I love him ? MERELY BECAUSE HE IS MASCULINE , I think . 
At bottom he is good , and I love him for that , but I could love him without it . 
If he should beat me and abuse me , I should go on loving him . 
It is a matter of sex , I think . 
He is strong and handsome , and I love him for that , and I admire him and am proud of him , but I could love him without those qualities . 
Yes , I think I love him merely because he is MINE and is MASCULINE . 
There is no other reason , I suppose . 
And so I think it is as I first said that this kind of love is not a product of reasonings and statistics . 
It just COMES none knows whence and cannot explain itself . 
It is what I think . 
But I am only a girl , the first that has examined this matter , and it may turn out that in my ignorance and inexperience I have not got it right . 
I am the first wife and in the last wife I shall be repeated . 
At Eve's Grave ADAM Wheresoever she was , THERE was Eden . 
