The Burial of the Guns by Thomas Nelson Page Virginian Author . 
Note on text Italicized words or phrases are capitalized . 
Some obvious errors have been corrected . 
This etext is transcribed from the edition published in New York . 
We have not time for it , and it does not seem like the same thing . 
Christmas , however , always brings up to me my cousin Fanny I suppose because she always was so foolish about Christmas . 
My cousin Fanny was an old maid indeed , to follow St . 
Paul's turn of phrase , she was an old maid of the old maids . 
No one who saw her a moment could have doubted it . 
Old maids have from most people a feeling rather akin to pity a hard heritage . 
They very often have this feeling from the young . 
My cousin Fanny was no exception . 
She was as proud as Lucifer yet she went through life the part that I knew of bearing the pity of the great majority of the people who knew her . 
She lived at an old place called Woodside , which had been in the family for a great many years indeed , ever since before the Revolution . 
The neighborhood dated back to the time of the colony , and Woodside was one of the old places . 
During the war the place , like most others in that neighborhood , suffered greatly , and only a sudden exhibition of spirit on Cousin Fanny's part saved it from a worse fate . 
Cousin Fanny had no means whatever , so that it soon was in a bad condition . 
She lived in a part of the house , locking up the rest , and from time to time visited among her friends and relatives , who always received her hospitably . 
As was said once , you could no more have remained dull where she was than you could have dozed with a chinkapin burr down your back . 
Her retort was that a chinkapin burr might be used to rouse people from a lethargy . 
By the younger members of the family she was always welcomed , because she furnished so much fun . 
She used to give trouble enough for it generally turned out that she had heard some one was sick in the neighborhood , and she wanted the soup carried to her . 
I remember how mad Joe got because she made him go with her to carry a bucket of soup to old Mrs. Ronquist . 
Cousin Fanny had the marks of an old maid . 
She used to say herself that they were bad eyes . 
I think she caught a bad cold with it sitting up nursing some of the younger children , perhaps and it had settled in her eyes . 
She was always very liable to cold . 
Of course , as every one said , she'd much better have married him . 
I do not suppose he ever could have addressed her . 
She never would admit that he did , which did not look much like it . 
She was once spoken of in my presence as a sore eyed old maid I have forgotten who said it . 
I recollect particularly once when she was singing an old French love song . 
Another time was when on a certain occasion some one was talking about marriages and the reasons which led to or prevented them . 
She sat quite still and silent , looking out of the window , with her thin hands resting in her lap . 
Her head was turned away from most of the people , but I was sitting where I could see her , and the light of the evening sky was on her face . 
It made her look very soft . 
She lifted up her eyes , and looked far off toward the horizon . 
There was an expression on her face that made me think she ought always to sit looking out of the window at the evening sky . 
I believe she had brought me some apples that day when she came , and that made me feel kindly toward her . 
The light on her hair gave it a reddish look , quite auburn . 
Presently , she withdrew her eyes from the sky , and let them fall into her lap with a sort of long , sighing breath , and slowly interlaced her fingers . 
The next second some one jocularly fired this question at her Well , Cousin Fanny , give us your views , and her expression changed back to that which she ordinarily wore . 
Oh , my views , like other people's , vary from my practice , she said . 
It is not views , but experiences , which are valuable in life . 
When I shall have been married twice I will tell you . 
While there's life there's hope , eh ? hazarded some one for teasing an old maid , in any way , was held perfectly legitimate . 
Yes , indeed , and she left the room , smiling , and went up stairs . 
This was one of the occasions when her eyes looked well . 
Her dress was one of her peculiarities . 
Perhaps it was because she made her clothes herself , without being able to see very well . 
I suppose she did not have much to dress on . 
I know she used to turn her dresses , and change them around several times . 
When she had any money she used to squander it , buying dresses for Scroggs's girls or for some one else . 
She was always scrupulously neat , being quite old maidish . 
She said that cleanliness was next to godliness in a man , and in a woman it was on a par with it . 
To be sure , the flowers looked like it . 
She always would stick flowers or leaves in her dress , which was thought quite ridiculous . 
The idea of associating flowers with an old maid ! It was as hard as believing she ever was the young girl . 
It was not , however , her dress , old and often queer and ill made as it used to be , that was the chief grievance against her . 
There was a much stronger ground of complaint she had NERVES ! The word used to be strung out in pronouncing it , with a curve of the lips , as ner erves . 
I don't remember that she herself ever mentioned them that was the exasperating part of it . 
She would never say a word she would just close her thin lips tight , and wear a sort of ill look , as if she were in actual pain . 
Of course it was very hard not to be exasperated at this . 
It was too ridiculous to us , and we boys used to walk heavily and stumble over chairs accidentally , of course just to make her jump . 
Sometimes she would even start up and cry out . 
She knew a great deal . 
Of course , when it came from an old maid , it made a difference . 
Of course this translation helped us as well as gratified her . 
I do not remember that she was ever too unwell to help us in this way except when she was actually in bed . 
She was very fond of us boys , and was always ready to take our side and to further our plans in any way whatever . 
We would get her to steal off with us , and translate our Latin for us by the fire . 
This , of course , made us rather fond of her . 
She used to say it was because she knew how worthless women were . 
She would say this sort of thing herself , but she was very touchy about women , and never would allow any one else to say anything about them . 
She had an old maid's temper . 
I remember that she took Doug up short once for talking about old maids . 
She said that Christ had humbled himself to be born of a Virgin , and that every woman had this honor to sustain . 
Of course such lectures as that made us call her an old maid all the more . 
Still , I don't think that being mischievous or teasing her made any difference with her . 
Frank used to worry her more than any one else , even than Joe , and I am sure she liked him best of all . 
That may perhaps have been because he was the best looking of us . 
She said once that he reminded her of some one she used to know a long time before , when she was young . 
That must have been a long time before , indeed . 
He used to tease the life out of her . 
I do not think she would have told an untruth to save her life . 
Well , of course we used to play on her to tease her . 
had cut down all the old trees in the yard , and pulled down the house because he wanted the bricks to make brick ovens . 
, and she would get into such a state of depression that Frank would finally have to tell her that he was just fooling her . 
He got quite expert at it . 
She said it was a penalty for his worrying her so . 
She was the great musician of the connection . 
But Cousin Fanny was not only this . 
It was particularly sweet in the evenings , when she sat down at the piano and played . 
She would not always do it she either felt not in the mood , or not sympathetic , or some such thing . 
Even the children would leave off playing , and come straggling in , tiptoeing as they crossed the floor . 
Some of the other performers used to play a great deal louder , but we never tiptoed when they played . 
Then we boys wanted to go forth in the world on fiery , black chargers , like the olden knights , and fight giants and rescue beautiful ladies and poor women . 
And Cousin Fanny was not herself any longer , but we imagined some one else was there . 
, in that case she always stopped and left the piano or it might be in condition . 
When it was , it was as velvety and mellow as a bell far off , and the old ballads and chansons used to fill the twilight . 
We used even to forget then that she was an old maid . 
Now and then she sang songs that no one else had ever heard . 
They were her own she had composed both the words and the air . 
At other times she sang the songs of others to her own airs . 
I remember the first time I ever heard of Tennyson was when , one evening in the twilight , she sang his echo song from The Princess . 
The air was her own , and in the refrain you heard perfectly the notes of the bugle , and the echoes answering , Dying , dying , dying . 
Boy as I was , I was entranced , and she answered my enthusiasm by turning and repeating the poem . 
I have often thought since how musical her voice was as she repeated Our echoes roll from soul to soul , And grow forever and forever . 
She had a peculiarly sentimental temperament . 
She was very aggravating in this way . 
Sometimes she would even take a pencil or pen and a sheet of paper for old Blinky , and reproduce it . 
She could not draw , of course , for she was not a painter all she could do was to make anything look almost just like it was . 
There was one thing about her which excited much talk I suppose it was only a piece of old maidism . 
Of course she was religious . 
She was really very good . 
She was considered very high church . 
In fact , it used to be whispered that she was in danger of becoming a Catholic . 
I believe she had an aunt that was one , and she had visited several times in Norfolk and Baltimore , where it was said there were a good many . 
I remember she used to defend them , and say she knew a great many very devout ones . 
And she admitted that she sometimes went to the Catholic church , and found it devotional the choral service , she said , satisfied something in her soul . 
It happened to be in the evening that she was talking about this . 
She sat down at the piano , and played some of the Gregorian chants she had heard , and it had a soothing influence on everyone . 
Even Joe , the fidgetiest of all , sat quite still through it . 
She said that some one had said it was the music that the angels sing in heaven around the great white throne , and there was no other sacred music like it . 
But she played another thing that evening which she said was worthy to be played with it . 
It had some chords in it that I remembered long afterward . 
Years afterward I heard it played the same way in the twilight by one who is a blessed saint in heaven , and may be playing it there now . 
It was considered as carrying old maidism to an extreme length . 
For some time afterward she was rather discountenanced . 
In reality , I think what some said was true it was simply that she was emotional , as old maids are apt to be . 
She once said that many women have the nun's instinct largely developed , and sigh for the peace of the cloister . 
She seemed to be very fond of artists . 
One of these friends of hers was a young man from Norfolk who had made a good many things . 
He was killed or died in the war so he had not been quite ruined was worth something anyhow as a soldier . 
One of his things was a Psyche , and Cousin Fanny used to talk a good deal about it she said it was fine , was a work of genius . 
She had even written some verses about it . 
She repeated them to me once , and I wrote them down . 
Here they are To Galt's Psyche . 
Well art thou called the soul For as I gaze on thee , My spirit , past control , Springs up in ecstasy . 
Thou canst not be dead stone For o'er thy lovely face , Softer than music's tone , I see the spirit's grace . 
The wild aeolian lyre Is but a silken string , Till summer winds inspire , And softest music bring . 
Psyche , thou wast but stone Till his inspiring came The sculptor's hand alone Made not that soul touched frame . 
They have lain by me for years , and are pretty good for one who didn't write . 
I think , however , she was young when she addressed them to the soul touched work of the young sculptor , who laid his genius and everything at Virginia's feet . 
They were friends , I believe , when she was a girl , before she caught that cold , and her eyes got bad . 
Among her eccentricities was her absurd cowardice . 
She was afraid of cows , afraid of horses , afraid even of sheep . 
And bugs , and anything that crawled , used to give her a fit . 
Of course , we boys used to tease her , and tell her the cows were coming after her . 
You could not help teasing anybody like that . 
I do not see how she managed to do what she did when the enemy got to Woodside in the war . 
That was quite remarkable , considering what a coward she was . 
During the Yankees on a raid got to her house one evening in the summer . 
, had got a leave of absence , and had come there sick with fever just the day before . 
He was in the boys' room in bed when the Yankees arrived , and they were all around the house before she knew it . 
She went downstairs to meet them . 
They had been informed by one of the negroes that Cousin Charlie was there , and they told her that they wanted him . 
She told them they could not get him . 
Well , they insisted on going through the house , and I let them go all through the lower stories but when they started up the staircase I was ready for them . 
I had always kept , you know , one of papa's old horse pistols as a protection . 
Of course , it was not loaded . 
I would not have had it loaded for anything in the world . 
I always kept it safely locked up , and I was dreadfully afraid of it even then . 
Well , as it happened , I had just been looking at it which I called inspecting my garrison' . 
I used to feel just like Lady Margaret in Tillietudlam Castle . 
But when they started up the stairs I had a new feeling . 
I could not say I would shoot , for it was not loaded . 
Well , do you know , they stopped ! They stopped dead still . 
I declare I was so afraid the old pistol would go off , though , of course , I knew it was not loaded , that I was just quaking . 
But as soon as they stopped , I began to attack . 
I remembered my old grandmother and her scissors , and , like General Jackson , I followed up my advantage . 
I descended the steps , brandishing my pistol with both hands , and abusing them with all my might . 
I was so afraid they might ask if it was loaded . 
, and they actually ran down the steps , with me after them , and I got them all out of the house . 
Then I locked the door and barred it , and ran up stairs and had such a cry over Charlie . 
That was like an old maid . 
He said he thought I was right well defended , as I had held a company at bay . 
He finally promised that if I would give him some music he would not go up stairs . 
I think I did sing it well , though . 
I cried a little myself , thinking of the old house being so nearly burnt . 
There was a young doctor there , a surgeon , a really nice looking fellow for a Yankee I made him feel ashamed of himself , I tell you . 
I told him I had no doubt he had a good mother and sister up at home , and to think of his coming and warring on poor women . 
And they really placed a guard over the house for me while they were there . 
She could not have done much better even if she had not been an old maid . 
I did not see much of her after I grew up . 
I moved away from the old county . 
Most others did the same . 
It had been desolated by the war , and got poorer and poorer . 
With an old maid's usual crankiness and inability to adapt herself to the order of things , Cousin Fanny remained behind . 
She refused to come away said , I believe , she had to look after the old place , mammy , and Fash , or some such nonsense . 
I think she had some idea that the church would go down , or that the poor people around would miss her , or something equally unpractical . 
Anyhow , she stayed behind , and lived for quite awhile the last of her connection in the county . 
But she said no that a single woman ought never to live in any house but her father's or her own and we could not do anything with her . 
She was so proud she would not take money as a gift from anyone , not even from her nearest relatives . 
Her health got rather poor not unnaturally , considering the way she divided her time between doctoring herself and fussing after sick people in all sorts of weather . 
With the fancifulness of her kind , she finally took it into her head that she must consult a doctor in New York . 
Of course , no one but an old maid would have done this the home doctors were good enough for everyone else . 
He told me his name , but I have forgotten it , of course . 
You'd have thought my old cap was a Parisian bonnet . 
I will not believe he was a Yankee . 
She said that when she came downstairs to go she never saw such a sight . 
So they started out , but it was a slow procession . 
Finally they reached the infirmary , where there were already a large number of patients , and many more came in afterwards . 
Here she shortly established an acquaintance with several strangers . 
This would have gone on indefinitely , her cousin said , if she had not finally dragged her into the doctor's room . 
There the first thing that she did was to insist that she must lie down , she was so faint , and her pillow was brought into requisition . 
The doctor humored her , and waited on her . 
Her friend started to tell him about her , but the doctor said , I prefer to have her tell me herself . 
She presently began to tell , the doctor sitting quietly by listening and seeming to be much interested . 
He turned out to be the surgeon who had been at her house with the Yankees during the war . 
He was very kind to her . 
I suppose he had never seen anyone like her . 
She used to go every day , and soon dispensed with her friend's escort , finding no difficulty in getting about . 
Indeed , she came to be known on the streets she passed through , and on the cars she travelled by , and people guided her . 
Several times as she was taking the wrong car men stopped her , and said to her , Madam , yours is the red car . 
She said , sure enough it was , but she never could divine how they knew . 
She said she did this on principle , for it was such a good thing to teach them to help a feeble woman . 
Next time they would expect to do it , and after a while it would become a habit . 
She said no one knew what terror women had of being run over and trampled on . 
She was , as I have said , an awful coward . 
The doctor finally told her that she had nothing the matter with her , except something with her nerves and , I believe , her spine , and that she wanted company . 
He said it was the first law of health ever laid down , that it was not good for man to be alone that loneliness is a specific disease . 
He said she wanted occupation , some sort of work to interest her , and make her forget her aches and ailments . 
He suggested missionary work of some kind . 
This was one of the worst things he could have told her , for there was no missionary work to be had where she lived . 
Cousin Fanny had a fancy that she was musical . 
I never knew how it was arranged . 
I think the doctor sent the money down to have the child brought on to New York for him to see . 
I suppose Cousin Fanny turned beggar , and asked him . 
Old maids do not mind giving people trouble . 
He treated her so badly that finally she had to leave , and boarded around . 
I believe the real cause was she caught him ploughing with old Fashion . 
After that I do not know exactly what she did . 
I do not know just how she got on . 
I was surprised to hear finally that she was dead had been dead since Christmas . 
It had never occurred to me that she would die . 
She had been dying so long that I had almost come to regard her as immortal , and as a necessary part of the old county and its associations . 
I fell in some time afterwards with a young doctor from the old county , who , I found , had attended her , and I made some inquiries about her . 
He told me that she died Christmas night . 
, and that she appeared to have a wretched cold . 
She had been riding all day seeing about a Christmas tree for the poor children . 
Next day he went to see the sick woman , and when he arrived he found her in one bed and Cousin Fanny in another , in the same room . 
When he had examined the patient , he turned and asked Cousin Fanny what was the matter with her . 
Oh , just a little cold , a little trouble in the chest , as Theodore Hook said , she replied . 
But I know how to doctor myself . 
Something about her voice struck him . 
He went over to her and looked at her , and found her suffering from acute pneumonia . 
He at once set to work on her . 
He took the other patient up in his arms and carried her into another room , where he told her that Cousin Fanny was a desperately ill woman . 
She was actually dying then , sir , he said to me , and she died that night . 
She must have had on wet clothes , he said . 
I asked him if she knew she was going to die . 
He said he did not think she did that he did not tell her , and she talked about nothing except her Christmas tree and the people she wanted to see . 
He heard her praying in the night , and , by the way , he said , she mentioned you . 
She shortly became rather delirious , and wandered a good deal , talking of things that must have happened when she was young spoke of going to see her mother somewhere . 
The last thing she ever said was something about fashion , which , he said , showed how ingrained is vanity in the female mind . 
The doctor knows something of human nature . 
He concluded what he had to say with , She was in some respects a very remarkable woman if she had not been an old maid . 
I do not suppose that she ever drew a well breath in her life . 
Not that I think old maids cannot be very acceptable women , he apologized . 
They are sometimes very useful . 
The doctor was a rather enlightened man . 
I really miss her a great deal . 
The other boys say they do the same . 
I suppose it is the trouble she used to give us . 
The old set are all doing well . 
He says the word spinster gave him a twist to philology . 
Old Blinky is in Paris . 
He had a picture in the salon last year , an autumn landscape , called Le Cote du Bois . 
I believe the translation of that is The Woodside . 
His coloring is said to be nature itself . 
To think of old Blinky being a great artist ! Little Kitty is now a big girl , and is doing finely at school . 
I have told her she must not be an old maid . 
Joe is a preacher with a church in the purlieus of a large city . 
I was there not long ago . 
He had a choral service . 
The Gregorian music carried me back to old times . 
He preached on the text , I was sick , and ye visited me . 
It was such a fine sermon , and he had such a large congregation , that I asked why he did not go to a finer church . 
He said he was carrying soup to Mrs. Ronquist . 
By the way , his organist was a splendid musician . 
She introduced herself to me . 
She is married , and can walk as well as I can . 
She had a little girl with her that I think she called Fanny . 
I do not think that was Mrs. Scroggs's name . 
Frank is now a doctor , or rather a surgeon , in the same city with Joe , and becoming very distinguished . 
The other day he performed a great operation , saving a woman's life , which was in all the papers . 
He said to an interviewer that he became a surgeon from dressing a sore on an old mare's back . 
I wonder what he was talking about ? He is about to start a woman's hospital for poor women . 
Cousin Fanny would have been glad of that she was always proud of Frank . 
She would as likely as not have quoted that verse from Tennyson's song about the echoes . 
She sleeps now under the myrtle at Scroggs's . 
It had done its work . 
The mountain pass had been seized and held , and the Federal force had not gotten by that road within the blue rampart which guarded on that side the heart of Virginia . 
The position taken by the battery had been chosen with a soldier's eye . 
A better place could not have been selected to hold the pass . 
The position , well defended , was impregnable , and it was well defended . 
He knew both the Colonel and his battery . 
The battery was one of the oldest in the army . 
It had been in the service since April , , and its commander had come to be known as The Wheel Horse of his division . 
He was , perhaps , the oldest officer of his rank in his branch of the service . 
The prompt and continuous work incident to the enlistment of the men , the bustle of preparation , and all the scenes of that time , come before me now . 
Soldiers seemed to spring from the ground , as they did from the sowing of the dragon's teeth in the days of Cadmus . 
The work was carried on at night as well as by day , for the occasion was urgent . 
Meantime the men were being drilled by the Captain and his lieutenants , who had been militia officers of old . 
It seemed that a sudden and great change had come . 
It was the actual appearance of what had hitherto only been theoretical war . 
Within a month he was on the Peninsula with Magruder , guarding Virginia on the east against the first attack . 
His camp was first at Yorktown and then on Jamestown Island , the honor having been assigned his battery of guarding the oldest cradle of the race on this continent . 
Its story was a part of the story of the Southern Army in Virginia . 
The Captain was a rigid disciplinarian , and his company had more work to do than most new companies . 
But he had not commanded very long before they came to know the stuff that was in him . 
Young farmer recruits knew of its prestige and expressed preference for it of many batteries of rapidly growing or grown reputation . 
The men were as pleased with them as children with new toys . 
The care and attention needed to keep them in prime order broke the monotony of camp life . 
They soon had abundant opportunities to test their power . 
They worked admirably , carried far , and were extraordinarily accurate in their aim . 
The history of the battery was bound up with the history of Lee's army . 
A rivalry sprang up among the detachments of the different guns , and their several records were jealously kept . 
New recruits coming in to fill the gaps made by the killed and disabled , readily fell in with the common mood and caught the spirit like a contagion . 
It was not an uncommon thing for a wheel to be smashed in by a shell , but if it happened to one gun oftener than to another there was envy . 
Two of the Evangelists seemed to be especially favored in this line , while the Cat was so exempt as to become the subject of some derision . 
This had happened in turn to every gun , the men at times working like beavers in mud up to their thighs and under a murderous fire to get their guns out . 
Many a man had been killed tugging at trail or wheel when the day was against them but not a gun had ever been lost . 
At last the evil day arrived . 
Most of the men who were not killed were retaken before the day was over , with many guns but the Cat was lost . 
She remained in the enemy's hands and probably was being turned against her old comrades and lovers . 
The other guns seemed lost without her the Eagle especially , which generally went next to her , appeared to the men to have a lonely and subdued air . 
The battery was no longer the same it seemed broken and depleted , shrunken to a mere section . 
It was worse than Cold Harbor , where over half the men were killed or wounded . 
It was added perhaps by a department clerk that if they wanted a gun to take the place of the one they had lost , they had better capture it . 
By , we will , they said adding epithets , intended for the department clerk in his bomb proof , not to be printed in this record and they did . 
The day , though early in May , was a hot one , and the old battery , like most others , had suffered fearfully . 
Still , she had a new carriage , and her record was lost , while those of the other guns had been faithfully kept by the men . 
This made a difference in her position for which even the bullets in her wheels did not wholly atone even Harris , the sergeant of her detachment , felt that . 
It was only a few days later , however , that abundant atonement was made . 
He simply marched by the left flank , and Lee marching by the right flank to head him , flung himself upon him again at Spottsylvania Court House . 
This covered all old scores . 
The other guns had been cut down by shells or solid shot but never before had one been gnawed down by musket balls . 
Thus the old battery had come to be known , as its old commander , now colonel of a battalion , had come to be known by those in yet higher command . 
Both men and horses looked , in the dim and waning light of the gray April day , rather like shadows of the beings they represented than the actual beings themselves . 
The orders to the Colonel , as has been said , were brief To hold the pass until he received further instructions , and not to lose his guns . 
To be ordered , with him , was to obey . 
As the battery was unsupported it had to rely on itself for everything , a condition which most soldiers by this time were accustomed to . 
A dozen or so of rifles were in the camp , and with these pickets were armed and posted . 
The day was Sunday a beautiful Spring Sunday but it was no Sabbath for the old battery . 
All day the men worked , making and strengthening their redoubt to guard the pass , and by the next morning , with the old battery at the top , it was impregnable . 
They were just in time . 
This gave them encouragement and probably misled them , for they now advanced boldly . 
And when the column reached this point the six guns , aimed by old and skilful gunners , at a given word swept road and mountain side with a storm of leaden hail . 
The sun went down flinging his last flame on a victorious battery still crowning the mountain pass . 
The next day the fight was renewed , and with the same result . 
The old battery in its position was unconquerable . 
Only one fear now faced them their ammunition was getting as low as their rations another such day or half day would exhaust it . 
A sergeant was sent back down the mountain to try to get more , or , if not , to get tidings . 
The next day it was supposed the fight would be renewed and the men waited , alert , eager , vigilant , their spirits high , their appetite for victory whetted by success . 
And yet volley after volley of artillery came rolling up the mountain . 
Before they had left the redoubt , however , the vedettes sent out returned and reported that there was no engagement going on , and the firing below seemed to be only practising . 
There was quite a stir in the camp below but they had not even broken camp . 
Perhaps it meant that they had received reinforcements , but it was a queer way of showing it . 
The old Colonel sighed as he thought of the good ammunition they could throw away down there , and of his empty limber chests . 
It was necessary to be on the alert , however the guns were run back into their old places , and the horses picketed once more back among the trees . 
Meantime he sent another messenger back , this time a courier , for he had but one commissioned officer left , and the picket below was strengthened . 
The morning passed and no one came the day wore on and still no advance was made by the force below . 
It was suggested that the enemy had left he had , at least , gotten enough of that battery . 
A reconnoissance , however , showed that he was still encamped at the foot of the mountain . 
It was conjectured that he was trying to find a way around to take them in the rear , or to cross the ridge by the footpath . 
Preparation was made to guard more closely the mountain path across the spur , and a detachment was sent up to strengthen the picket there . 
The waiting told on the men and they grew bored and restless . 
They told them off in a slow and colorless way , as if it were all part of the past as much as the dead they named . 
One hundred and nineteen times they had been in action . 
Only seventeen men were left of the eighty odd who had first enlisted in the battery , and of these four were at home crippled for life . 
Two of the oldest men had been among the half dozen who had fallen in the skirmish just the day before . 
They agreed calmly that they'd have to sort of look after them a little if they ever got home . 
One thing they talked about a good deal was something to eat . 
They described meals they had had at one time or another as personal adventures , and discussed the chances of securing others in the future as if they were prizes of fortune . 
One listening and seeing their thin , worn faces and their wasted frames might have supposed they were starving , and they were , but they did not say so . 
Towards the middle of the afternoon there was a sudden excitement in the camp . 
In a minute every man in the battery was on the breastwork . 
A hundred conjectures were indulged in . 
Some extreme ones thought a shot ought to be fired over them to warn them not to come on no flags of truce were wanted . 
If necessary to bring the messenger farther , bring only the officer who has the flag , and halt him at that rock yonder , where I will join him . 
The tone was as placid as if such an occurrence came every day . 
Two minutes later the lieutenant was on his way down the mountain and the Colonel had the men in ranks . 
His face was as grave and his manner as quiet as usual , neither more nor less so . 
The men were in a state of suppressed excitement . 
Having put them in charge of the second sergeant the Colonel returned to the breastwork . 
The two men met , but there was no spoken question if the Colonel inquired it was only with the eyes . 
The lieutenant spoke , however . 
Not dead ? Not killed ? said the Colonel , quickly . 
No , not so bad as that surrendered surrendered his entire army at Appomattox day before yesterday . 
I believe it is all a damned lie , he broke out again , as if the hot denial relieved him . 
The Colonel simply turned away his face and stepped a pace or two off , and the two men stood motionless back to back for more than a minute . 
Shall I go back with you ? the lieutenant asked , huskily . 
The Colonel did not answer immediately . 
Then he said No , go back to camp and await my return . 
He said nothing about not speaking of the report . 
He knew it was not needed . 
Then he went down the hill slowly alone , while the lieutenant went up to the camp . 
The interview between the two officers beside the bowlder was not a long one . 
The men were at once set to work to meet any attack which might be made . 
They knew that the message was of grave import , but not of how grave . 
The time wore on , however , and there was no demonstration below , though hour after hour it was expected and even hoped for . 
He was alone , and had something white before him on his horse it could not be the ammunition but perhaps that might be coming on behind . 
Every step of his jaded horse was anxiously watched . 
He sat without moving , hardly stirring until the lieutenant returned from his round . 
A minute later the men were called from the guns and made to fall into line . 
His voice had a somewhat metallic sound , as if it were restrained but it was otherwise the ordinary tone of command . 
His orders were not to let his guns fall into the enemy's hands , and he should take the only step possible to prevent it . 
As it was necessary to make some preparations he would now dismiss them to prepare any rations they might have and get ready to march . 
All this was in the formal manner of a common order of the day and the old Colonel had spoken in measured sentences , with little feeling in his voice . 
Not a man in the line had uttered a word after the first sound , half exclamation , half groan , which had burst from them at the announcement of Lee's surrender . 
We have the future before us we don't know just what it will bring , but we can stand a good deal . 
Upon us depends the South in the future as in the past . 
You have done your duty in the past , you will not fail in the future . 
Go home and be honest , brave , self sacrificing , God fearing citizens , as you have been soldiers , and you need not fear for Virginia and the South . 
The war may be over but you will ever be ready to serve your country . 
But as he did so , the long pent up emotion burst forth . 
Many of them cried like children others offered to go down and have one more battle on the plain . 
The old Colonel soothed them , and quieted their excitement , and then gave a command about the preparations to be made . 
Soon they were all assembled about the guns . 
One of them appeared to be writing , while two or three took up flaming chunks from the fire and held them as torches for him to see by . 
In time the entire company assembled about them , standing in respectful silence , broken only occasionally by a reply from one or another to some question from the scribe . 
What is it , Harris ? said the Colonel to the man with the paper , who bore remnants of the chevrons of a sergeant on his stained and faded jacket . 
If you please , sir , he said , with a salute , we have been talking it over , and we'd like this paper to go in along with that you're writing . 
He held it out to the lieutenant , who was the nearer and had reached forward to take it . 
We s'pose you're agoin' to bury it with the guns , he said , hesitatingly , as he handed it over . 
What is it ? asked the Colonel , shading his eyes with his hands . 
He stopped and waited as a man who had delivered his message . 
The old Colonel had risen and taken the paper , and now held it with a firm grasp , as if it might blow away with the rising wind . 
He waited again , and the Colonel opened the paper and glanced down at it mechanically . 
Then had followed Those wounded , but this was marked out . 
Then came a roster of the company when it first entered service then of those who had joined afterward then of those who were present now . 
, of six guns , named , etc . 
, commanded by the said Col . 
There was a dead silence whilst the Colonel read . 
He looked around as if to receive the corroboration of the other men , which they signified by nods and shuffling . 
The Colonel said it was all right , and the paper should go into the guns . 
The men were then ordered to prepare to march immediately , and withdrew for the purpose . 
The pickets were called in . 
The embers of the sinking camp fires threw a faint light on them standing so still and silent . 
Not a word was spoken , except the words of command . 
A deadly silence fell on the men , and even the horses behind seemed to feel the spell . 
They seemed to come from far , very far away . 
Then the Colonel said , quietly , Let them go , and God be our helper , Amen . 
Then the Colonel gave the command to fall in in the same quiet , grave tone he had used all night . 
Not a word was spoken as they moved off . 
They might all have been phantoms . 
I came across him passing through the square . 
, and claimed the glory for the rest of the command . 
It happened just as I have told you here , he said , in closing . 
They didn't go at a walk either , I tell you it wasn't any promenade they went clipping . 
, and in a little while the rest of the line came up , and we formed a line of battle right there on that crest , and held it till nearly night . 
That's when I got jabbed . 
I picked up another horse , and with my foolishness went over there . 
That evening , you know , you all charged us we were dismounted then . 
We lost more men then than we had done all day there were forty seven out of seventy two killed or wounded . 
, but I was too worthless to die . 
There were lots of 'em did go though , I tell you old Joe in the lead . 
Yes , sir the old company won that day , and old Joe led 'em . 
There ain't but a few of us left but when you want us , Colonel , you can get us . 
I took a good look at him at No. , as he called himself . 
He was tall , but stooped a little his features were good , at least his nose and brow were his mouth and chin were weak . 
His mouth was too stained with the tobacco which he chewed to tell much about it and his chin was like so many American chins , not strong . 
His clothes were very much worn , but they had once been good they formerly had been black , and well made the buttons were all on . 
I took note of this , for he had a dissipated look , and a rumpled shirt would have been natural . 
A man's linen tells on him before his other clothes . 
His listener had evidently been impressed by him also , for he arose , and said , abruptly , Let's go and take a drink . 
To my surprise No. declined . 
No , I thank you , he said , with promptness . 
I instinctively looked at him again to see if I had not misjudged him but I concluded not , that I was right , and that he was simply not drinking . 
I was flattered at my discrimination when I heard him say that he had sworn off . 
His friend said no more , but remained standing while No. expatiated on the difference between a man who is drinking and one who is not . 
I never heard a more striking exposition of it . 
He said he wondered that any man could be such a fool as to drink liquor that he had determined never to touch another drop . 
He presently relapsed into silence , and the other reached out his hand to say good by . 
Suddenly rising , he said Well , suppose we go and have just one for old times' sake . 
Just one now , mind you for I have not touched a drop in He turned away , and I did not catch the length of the time mentioned . 
But I have reason to believe that No. overstated it . 
The next time I saw him was in the police court . 
He walked with that exaggerated erectness which told his self deluded state as plainly as if he had pronounced it in words . 
He had evidently been there before , and more than once . 
The justice nodded to him familiarly Here again ? he asked , in a tone part pleasantry , part regret . 
The judge interrupted him I thought you told me last time that if I let you go you would not take another drink for a year . 
I forgot , said No. , in a low voice . 
This officer says you resisted him ? The officer looked stolidly at the prisoner as if it were a matter of not the slightest interest to him personally . 
Cursed me and abused me , he said , dropping the words slowly as if he were checking off a schedule . 
I did not , your honor indeed , I did not , said No. , quickly . 
I swear I did not he is mistaken . 
Your honor does not believe I would tell you a lie ! Surely I have not got so low as that . 
The justice turned his pencil in his hand doubtfully , and looked away . 
No. took in his position . 
I fell in with an old soldier , and we got to talking about the war about old times . 
His voice was very soft . 
I will promise your honor that I won't take another drink for a year . 
Here , I'll take an oath to it . 
He seized the greasy little Bible on the desk before him , and handed it to the justice . 
The magistrate took it doubtfully . 
He looked down at the prisoner half kindly , half humorously . 
He started to lay the book down . 
No I want to take the pledge , said No. , eagerly . 
Did I ever break a pledge I made to your honor ? Didn't you promise me not to come back here ? I have not been here for nine months . 
Besides , I did not come of my own free will , said No. , with a faint flicker of humor on his perspiring face . 
You were here two months ago , and you promised not to take another drink . 
I did not mean to break it indeed , I did not . 
I fell in with The justice looked away , considered a moment , and ordered him back into the pen with , Ten days , to cool off . 
No. stood quite still till the officer motioned him to the gate , behind which the prisoners sat in stolid rows . 
Then he walked dejectedly back into the pen , and sat down by another drunkard . 
His look touched me , and I went around and talked to the magistrate privately . 
But he was inexorable he said he knew more of him than I did , and that ten days in jail would dry him out and be good for him . 
I told him the story of the battle . 
I must do him the justice to say that I now think it would not have made any difference if he had done otherwise . 
He had tried the other course many times . 
He was willing to do anything , he said that is , anything he could do . 
I got him a place with a friend of mine which he kept a week , then got drunk . 
We got hold of him , however , and sobered him up , and he escaped the police and the justice's court . 
He possessed in this particular department an eloquence which was incredible . 
His blasphemy was vast , illimitable , infinite . 
He said that all of its energies were quickened and concentrated in this direction , and then he took not only pleasure , but pride in it . 
He told me a good deal of his life . 
He had got very low at this time , much lower than he had been when I first knew him . 
He recognized this himself , and used to analyze and discuss himself in quite an impersonal way . 
This was when he had come out of jail , and after having the liquor dried out of him . 
I never saw such absolute dominion as the love of liquor had over him . 
He was like a man in chains . 
He confessed it frankly and calmly . 
He said he had a disease , and gave me a history of it . 
He was killed at the battle of Bull Run . 
In the army he was in a convivial crowd , and they had hard marching and poor rations , often none . 
Then he got to like it and then got to feel the need of it , and took it to stimulate him when he was run down . 
This want brought with it a great depression when he did not have the means to satisfy it . 
He never liked the actual taste of it he said few drunkards did . 
It was the effect that he was always after . 
This increased on him , he said , until finally it was no longer a desire , but a passion , a necessity he was obliged to have it . 
He felt then that he would commit murder for it . 
Why , I dream about it , he said . 
I will tell you what I have done . 
I believe I would have done it if I had known I was going next moment to hell . 
I asked him how ? I sold it , he said calmly that is , persuaded my mother to sell it . 
The stock that belonged to me had nearly all gone before . 
A man who is drinking will sell anything , he said . 
I have sold everything in the world I had , or could lay my hands on . 
I have never got quite so low as to sell my old gray jacket that I used to wear when I rode behind old Joe . 
I mean to be buried in that if I can keep it . 
He had been engaged to a nice girl the wedding day had been fixed but she had broken off the engagement . 
She was a mighty nice girl , he said , quietly . 
Her people did not like my drinking so much . 
I passed her not long ago on the street . 
She did not know me . 
He glanced down at himself quietly . 
She looks older than she did . 
I have either got to drink or let it alone one thing or the other , he said . 
But I am all right now , he declared triumphantly , a little of the old fire lighting up in his face . 
I never expect to touch a drop again . 
He spoke so firmly that I was persuaded to make him a little loan , taking his due bill for it , which he always insisted on giving . 
That evening I saw him being dragged along by three policemen , and he was cursing like a demon . 
In the course of time he got so low that he spent much more than half his time in jail . 
His companions would be one or two chronic drunkards like himself , with red noses , bloated faces , dry hair , and filthy clothes . 
Sometimes I would see him hurrying along with one of these as if they had a piece of the most important business in the world . 
An idea had struck their addled brains that by some means they could manage to secure a drink . 
Yet in some way he still held himself above these creatures , and once or twice I heard of him being under arrest for resenting what he deemed an impertinence from them . 
Once he came very near being drowned . 
There was a flood in the river , and a large crowd was watching it from the bridge . 
Suddenly a little girl's dog fell in . 
It was pushed in by a ruffian . 
The child cried out , and there was a commotion . 
When it subsided a man was seen swimming for life after the little white head going down the stream . 
He had slapped the fellow in the face , and then had sprung in after the dog . 
He caught it , and got out himself , though in too exhausted a state to stand up . 
When he was praised for it , he said , A member of old Joe's company who would not have done that could not have ridden behind old Joe . 
I had this story from eye witnesses , and it was used shortly after with good effect for he was arrested for burglary , breaking into a man's house one night . 
I think the jury became satisfied that if any money had been taken the bar keeper , to make out a case against No. , had taken it himself . 
In May , , there was a monument unveiled in Richmond . 
It was a great occasion , and not only all Virginia , but the whole South , participated in it with great fervor , much enthusiasm , and many tears . 
It was an occasion for sacred memories . 
The newspapers talked about it for a good while beforehand preparations were made for it as for the celebration of a great and general ceremony in which the whole South was interested . 
As such all were interested in it , and all prepared for it . 
Men came all the way from Oregon and California to be present . 
Old one legged soldiers stumped it from West Virginia . 
Even No. , though in the gutter , caught the contagion , and shaped up and became sober . 
He got a good suit of clothes somewhere not new and appeared quite respectable . 
He even got something to do , and , in token of what he had been , was put on one of the many committees having a hand in the entertainment arrangements . 
I never saw a greater change in anyone . 
It looked as if there was hope for him yet . 
It's worn , of course , he said , but my mother put some patches over the holes , and except for the stain on it it's in good order . 
I believe I am the only one of the boys that has his jacket still my mother kept this for me I have never got so hard up as to part with it . 
I mean to be buried in it . 
I had never remarked before what a refined face he had his enthusiasm made him look younger than I had ever seen him . 
I saw him on the day before the eve of the unveiling he was as busy as a bee , and looked almost handsome . 
The boys are coming in by every train , he said . 
He pulled me aside , and unbuttoned his vest . 
A piece of faded gray cloth was disclosed . 
He had the old gray jacket on under his other coat . 
I know the boys will like to see it , he said . 
I'm going down to the train now to meet one Binford Terrell . 
I don't know whether I shall know him . 
Binford and I used to be much of a size . 
I have not touched a drop . 
The next night about bedtime I got a message that a man wanted to see me at the jail immediately . 
Would I come down there at once ? I had a foreboding , and I went down . 
It was as I suspected . 
No. was there behind the bars . 
Drunk again , said the turnkey , laconically , as he let me in . 
He let me see him . 
He wanted me to see the judge and get him out . 
It was all an accident he had found some of the old boys , and they had got to talking over old times , and just for old times' sake , etc . 
He was too drunk to stand up but the terror of being locked up next day had sobered him , and his mind was perfectly clear . 
He implored me to see the judge and to get him to let him out . 
Tell him I will come back here and stay a year if he will let me out to morrow , he said brokenly . 
He showed me the gray jacket under his vest , and was speechless . 
Even then he did not ask release on the ground that he was a veteran . 
I never knew him to urge this reason . 
Even the officials who must have seen him there fifty times were sympathetic and they told me to see the justice , and they believed he would let him out for next day . 
I applied to him as they suggested . 
He said , Come down to court to morrow morning . 
No. was present , pale and trembling . 
As he stood there he made a better defence than any one else could have made for him . 
As he stood awaiting sentence , he looked like a damned soul . 
His coat was unbuttoned , and his old , faded gray jacket showed under it . 
The justice , to his honor , let him off let all offenders off that day . 
No. shook hands with him , unable to speak , and turned away . 
Then he had a strange turn . 
We had hard work to get him to go into the procession . 
He positively refused said he was not fit to go , or to live began to cry , and took off his jacket . 
He would go back to jail , he said . 
I had some apprehension that he would not turn up in the procession but I was mistaken . 
He was there with the old cavalry veterans , as sober as a judge , and looking every inch a soldier . 
It was a strange scene , and an impressive one even to those whose hearts were not in sympathy with it in any respect . 
Many who had been the hardest fighters against the South were in sympathy with much of it , if not with all . 
But to those who were of the South , it was sublime . 
It passed beyond mere enthusiasm , however exalted , and rested in the profoundest and most sacred deeps of their being . 
There were many cheers , but more tears not tears of regret or mortification , but tears of sympathy and hallowed memory . 
But this was merely the outward image the real fact was the spirit . 
It was the spirit of the South not of the new South , nor yet merely of the old South , but the spirit of the great South . 
Men and women and children joined in it . 
Men wept children shrilled women sobbed aloud . 
They saw in every stain on those tattered standards the blood of their noblest , bravest , and best in every rent a proof of their glorious courage and sacrifice . 
Still the throng on the sidewalks was tremendous , and just before the old veterans came along the crush increased . 
Finally she seemed to give it up , and stood quite still , tiptoeing now and then to try to catch a glimpse . 
There was a short colloquy . 
She was hardly seated when the old soldiers began to pass . 
As the last mounted veterans came by , I remembered that I had not seen No. but as I looked up , he was just coming along . 
In his hand , with staff resting on his toe , he carried an old standard so torn and tattered and stained that it was scarcely recognizable as a flag . 
I did not for a moment take in that it was he , for he was not in the gray jacket which I had expected to see . 
He was busy looking down at the throng on the sidewalk , apparently searching for some one whom he expected to find there . 
He was in some perplexity , and pulled in his horse , which began to rear . 
Suddenly the applause from the portico above arrested his attention , and he looked toward it and bowed . 
As he did so his eye caught that of the old lady seated there . 
His face lighted up , and , wheeling his prancing horse half around , he dipped the tattered standard , and gave the royal salute as though saluting a queen . 
The old lady pressed her wrinkled hand over the knot of faded ribbon on her breast , and made a gesture to him , and he rode on . 
He had suddenly grown handsome . 
I looked at her again her eyes were closed , her hands were clasped , and her lips were moving . 
I saw the likeness she was his mother . 
As he passed me I caught his eye . 
He saw my perplexity about the jacket , glanced up at the torn colors , and pointed to a figure just beyond him dressed in a short , faded jacket . 
After that we got him a place , and he did well for several months . 
He seemed to be cured . 
New life and strength appeared to come back to him . 
But his mother died , and one night shortly afterward he disappeared , and remained lost for several days . 
When we found him he had been brought to jail , and I was sent for to see about him . 
He was worse than I had ever known him . 
He was half naked and little better than a madman . 
I went to a doctor about him , an old army surgeon , who saw him , and shook his head . 
Very bad only a question of time , he said . 
Body and brain were both gone . 
It got to be only a question of days , if not of hours . 
There in the dreadful terror of raving delirium he passed that night . 
I with several others sat up with him . 
I could not have stood many more like it . 
All night long he raved and tore . 
His oaths were blood curdling . 
He covered every past portion of his life . 
His army life was mainly in his mind . 
He fought the whole war over . 
Sometimes he prayed fervently prayed against his infirmity prayed that his chains might be broken . 
Then he would grow calm for awhile . 
One thing recurred constantly he had sold his honor , betrayed his cause . 
This was the order again and again , and each time the paroxysm of frightful fury came on , and it took all of us to hold him . 
He was covered with snakes they were chains on his wrists and around his body . 
He tried to pull them from around him . 
At last , toward morning , came one of those fearful spells , worse than any that had gone before . 
It passed , and he suddenly seemed to collapse . 
He sank , and the stimulant administered failed to revive him . 
He is going , said the doctor , quietly , across the bed . 
Whether his dull ear caught the word or not , I cannot say but he suddenly roused up , tossed one arm , and said Binford , take the horses . 
I'm going to old Joe , and sank back . 
He's gone , said the doctor , opening his shirt and placing his ear over his heart . 
As he rose up I saw two curious scars on No. 's emaciated breast . 
They looked almost like small crosses , about the size of the decorations the European veterans wear . 
The old doctor bent over and examined them . 
Hello ! Bayonet wounds , he said briefly . 
A little later I went out to get a breath of fresh morning air to quiet my nerves , which were somewhat unstrung . 
As I passed by a little second hand clothing store of the meanest kind , in a poor , back street , I saw hanging up outside an old gray jacket . 
I stopped to examine it . 
It was stained behind with mud , and in front with a darker color . 
An old patch hid a part of the front but a close examination showed two holes over the breast . 
It was No. 's lost jacket . 
I asked the shopman about it . 
He had bought it , he said , of a pawnbroker who had got it from some drunkard , who had probably stolen it last year from some old soldier . 
Word was sent to us during the day to say that the city would bury him in the poorhouse grounds . 
But we told them that arrangements had been made that he would have a soldier's burial . 
He was in fact a singular fellow . 
So it was all natural enough to Floyd to be as he was . 
But a man can no more tell whether or not he is a crank than he can tell how old he looks . 
He was , however , without doubt , different in certain ways from most people . 
Some said he was old fashioned some that he was old timey some that he was unpractical , the shades of criticism ranging up to those saying he was a fool . 
This did not mean intellectually , for none denied his intellect . 
He drove a virile pen , and had an epigrammatic tongue . 
He had had a hard time . 
He had borne the yoke in his youth . 
This , we have strong authority for saying , is good for a man but it leaves its mark upon him . 
He had been desperately poor . 
He had not minded that except for his mother , and he had approved of her giving up every cent to meet the old security debts . 
It had cut him off from his college education but he had worked till he was a better scholar than he might have been had he gone to college . 
Some one said to Floyd that he might have shortened the epitaphs , and have saved something . 
I did not want them shortened , said he . 
He had borne the yoke otherwise also . 
One of the first things he had done after starting in life was to fall in love with a beautiful woman . 
She was very beautiful and a great belle . 
Every one said it was sheer nonsense for Henry Floyd to expect her to marry him , as poor as he was , which was natural enough . 
He never said one word against her , not even when she married a man much older than himself , simply , as everyone said , because he was very rich . 
If Floyd ever thought that she treated him badly , no one ever knew it , and when finally she left her husband , no one ever ventured to discuss it before Floyd . 
Henry Floyd , however , had suffered , that everyone could see who had eyes but only he knew how much . 
He was in this state when he met HER . 
He always afterward referred to her so . 
He was at a reception when he came upon her on a stairway . 
A casual word about his life , a smile flashed from her large , dark , luminous eyes , lighting up her face , and Henry Floyd awoke . 
She had called him from the dead . 
It was a case of love at first sight . 
From that time he never had a thought for anyone else , least of all for himself . 
He lived in her and for her . 
He blossomed under her sympathy as a tree comes out under the sunshine and soft breath of spring . 
He grew , he broadened . 
She was his sun , his breath of life he worshipped her . 
Then one day she died suddenly sank down and died as a butterfly might die , chilled by a blast . 
With her Henry Floyd buried his youth . 
For a time people were sympathetic but they began immediately to speculate about him , then to gossip about him . 
It made no difference to him or in him . 
He was like a man that is dead , who felt no more . 
One thing about a great sorrow is that it destroys all lesser ones . 
A man with a crushed body does not feel pinpricks . 
Henry Floyd went on his way calmly , doggedly , mechanically . 
He drifted on and was talked about continually . 
Gossip would not let him alone , so she did him the honor to connect his name with that of every woman he met . 
In fact , there was as much reason to mention all as one . 
He was fond of women , and enjoyed them . 
There was a certain gentleness mingled with firmness , a kind of protecting air about him which women admired , and a mystery of impenetrable sadness which women liked . 
Every woman who knew him trusted him , and had a right to trust him . 
To none was he indifferent , but in none was he interested . 
He was simply cut off . 
A physician who saw him said , That man is dying of loneliness . 
This went on for some years . 
At last his friends determined to get him back into society . 
They made plans for him and carried them out to a certain length there the plans failed . 
Floyd might be led up to the water , but none could make him drink there he took the bit in his teeth and went his own way . 
You must marry , they said to him . 
When one rises from the dead , he replied . 
At length , his friends grew tired of helping him and gave him up , and he dropped out and settled down . 
Commiseration is one of the bitter things of life . 
But Floyd had what is harder to bear than that . 
It did not affect his work . 
It was only his health and his life that suffered . 
He was like a man who has lost the senses of touch and taste and sight . 
If he minded it , he did not show it . 
One can get used to being bedridden . 
One thing about him was that he always appeared poor . 
He began to be known as an inventor and writer . 
It was known that he received high prices for what he did but he appeared to be no better off than when he made nothing . 
Some persons supposed that he gambled others whispered that he spent it in other dissipation . 
In fact , one lady gave a circumstantial account of the way he squandered his money , and declared herself very glad that he had never visited her daughters . 
When this was repeated to Floyd , he said he fortunately did not have to account to her for the way he spent his money . 
He felt that the woman out under the marble cross knew how his money went , and so did the little cousin who was named after her , and who was at school . 
He had a letter from her in his pocket at that moment . 
At length one evening he was at a reception in a strange city whither his business had taken him . 
The rooms were filled with light and beauty . 
Floyd was standing chatting with a child of ten years , whom he found standing in a corner , gazing out with wide questioning eyes on the throng . 
They were friends instantly , and he was telling her who the guests were , as they came sailing in , giving them fictitious names and titles . 
They are all queens , he told her , at which she laughed . 
She pointed out a tall and stately woman with a solemn face , and with a gleaming bodice on like a cuirass , and her hair up on her head like a casque . 
Who is that ? Queen Semiramis . 
And who is that ? It was a stout lady with a tiara of diamonds , a red face , and three feathers . 
Queen Victoria , of course . 
And who am I ? She placed her little hand on her breast with a pretty gesture . 
The Queen of Hearts , said Floyd , quickly , at which she laughed outright . 
Oh ! I must not laugh , she said , checking herself and glancing around her with a shocked look . 
If you don't , you sha'n't know who another queen is . 
No , mamma told me I must not make a bit of noise it is not style , you know , but you mustn't be so funny . 
Good heavens ! said Floyd . 
Oh ! who is this coming ? A lady richly dressed was making her way toward them . 
The Queen of Sheba coming to see Solomon , said Floyd , as she came up to him . 
Oh ! I was so afraid you were going away with her . 
And leave you ? Never , I'm not so easily disposed of . 
They call her the Queen . 
Do they ? Do you like her ? Yes . 
You don't , she said , looking at him keenly . 
Yes , she is beautiful . 
She isn't as beautiful as someone else I know , said Floyd , pleasantly . 
Isn't she ? As whom ? Floyd took hold of the child's hand and said , Let's go and get some supper . 
I don't like her , said the little girl , positively . 
Don't you ? said Floyd . 
He stopped and glanced across the room toward where the girl had stood . 
He saw only the gleam of her fine shoulders as she disappeared in the crowd surrounded by her admirers . 
A little later Floyd met the young lady on the stairway . 
He had not recognized her , and was passing on , when she spoke to him . 
I saw you talking to a little friend of mine , she began , then Over in the corner , she explained . 
I always feel when I have talked with a child as if I had got as near to the angels as one can get on earth . 
Do you know I was very anxious to meet you , she said . 
Were you ? Thank you . 
Why ? Because of a line of yours I once read . 
I am pleased to have written only one line that attracted your attention , said Floyd , bowing . 
No , no it was this The whitest soul of man or saint is black beside a girl's . 
Beside a child's , said Floyd , correcting her . 
Oh ! yes , so it is beside a child's . 
Her voice was low and musical . 
Yes good night , she held out her hand , with a taking gesture and smile . 
Good night , said Floyd , and passed on up the stairs to the dressing room . 
He got his coat and hat and came down the stairway . 
Come to the club , they said . 
Roast oysters and beer , they said . 
No , I'm going home . 
Are you ill ? asked a friend . 
No , not at all . 
Why ? You look like a man who has seen a spirit . 
Do I ? I'm tired , I suppose . 
Good night , good night , gentlemen , and he passed out . 
Perhaps I have , he said as he went down the cold steps into the frozen street . 
Floyd went home and tossed about all night . 
His life was breaking up , he was all at sea . 
Why had he met her ? He was losing the anchor that had held him . 
They call her the queen , the little girl had said . 
He had seen her soul through her eyes . 
Floyd sent her the poem which contained the line which she had quoted and she wrote him a note thanking him . 
She invited him to call . 
He went to see her . 
She was fine in grain and in look . 
What was right ? she asked . 
Something a little girl said about you . 
What was it ? I will tell you some day , when I know you better . 
Was it a compliment ? Yes . 
He came to know her better to know her very well . 
He did not see her very often , but he thought of her a great deal . 
He seemed to find in her a sympathy which he needed . 
It reminded him of the past . 
He awoke from his lethargy began to work once more in the old way mixed among men again grew brighter . 
Henry Floyd is growing younger , instead of older , someone said of him . 
His health has been bad , said a doctor . 
I thought at one time he was going to die . 
He is getting rich , said a broker , who had been a schoolmate of his . 
I see he has just invented a new something or other to relieve children with hip or ankle joint disease . 
Yes , and it is a capital thing , too it is being taken up by the profession . 
It is a curious thing that he should have hit on that when he is not a surgeon . 
He had studied anatomy as a sort of fad , as he does everything . 
One of Haile Tabb's boys was bedridden , and he was a great friend of his , and that set him at it . 
I don't think he's so much of a crank as he used to be , said someone . 
The broker who had been his schoolmate met Floyd next day . 
I see you have been having a great stroke of luck , he said . 
I see in the papers , that your discovery , or invention , or whatever it was , has been taken up . 
Oh ! yes that ? It has . 
I would not mind looking into that . 
Yes , it is interesting . 
I might take an interest in it . 
Yes , I should think so . 
My patent ! I haven't any patent . 
What ! No patent ? No. It's for the good of people generally . 
But you got a patent ? No. Couldn't you get a patent ? I don't know . 
Well , I'll be bound I'd have got a patent . 
Oh ! no , I don't think so . 
I tell you what , you ought to turn your talents to account , said his friend . 
Yes , I know I ought . 
You could be a rich man . 
But I don't care to be rich . 
What ! Oh ! nonsense . 
Well , maybe I shall some day . 
Why should I want to be rich ? To live to buy what you want . 
I want sympathy , love can one buy that ? Yes even that . 
There is only one sort of woman to be bought . 
Well , come and see me sometimes , won't you ? Well , no , I'm very much obliged to you but I don't think I can . 
Why ? I have lots of rich men come to my house . 
You'd find it to your advantage if you'd come . 
We could make big money together if He paused . 
Floyd was looking at him . 
Could we ? If what ? If you would let me use you . 
Thank you , said Floyd . 
Why won't you come ? Well , the fact is , I haven't time . 
I shall have to wait to get a little richer before I can afford it . 
Besides I have a standing engagement . 
Oh ! no , we won't squeeze you . 
I tell you what , come up to dinner to morrow . 
I'm going to have a fellow there , an awfully rich fellow want to interest him in some things , and I've invited him down . 
He is young Router , the son of the great Router , you know who he is ? Well , no , I don't believe I do . 
Sorry I can't come but I have an engagement . 
What is it ? To play mumble the peg with some boys Haile Tabb's boys . 
Oh ! hang the boys ! Come up to dinner . 
It is an opportunity you may not have again shortly . 
Router's awfully successful , and you can interest him . 
I tell you what I'll do No , thank you , I'll keep my engagement . 
That fellow's either a fool or he is crazy , said his friend , gazing after him as he walked away . 
And he's got some sense too . 
If he'd let me use him I could make money out of him for both of us . 
It was not long before Floyd began to be known more widely . 
He had schemes for the amelioration of the condition of the poor . 
They were pronounced quixotic but he kept on . 
He said he got good out of them if no one else did . 
He began to go oftener and oftener down to the City , where Miss Dangerlie lived . 
He did not see a great deal of her but he wrote to her . 
He found in her a ready sympathy with his plans . 
Whatever he suggested , she accepted . 
He found in her tastes a wonderful similarity with his , and from that he drew strength . 
Women in talking of him in connection with her said it was a pity men said he was lucky . 
One evening , at a reception at her house , he was in the gentlemen's dressing room . 
It was evidently a lady's apartment which had been devoted for the occasion as a dressing room . 
It was quite full at the time . 
A man , a large fellow with sleek , short hair , a fat chin , and a dazzling waistcoat , pulled open a lower drawer in a bureau . 
Articles of a lady's apparel were discovered , spotless and neatly arranged . 
Shut that drawer instantly , said Floyd , in a low , imperious tone . 
Suppose I don't , what then ? I will pitch you out of that window , said Floyd , quietly , moving a step nearer to him . 
The drawer was closed , and the man turned away . 
Do you know who that was ? asked someone of Floyd . 
No , not the slightest idea . 
That was young Router , the son of the great Router . 
Who is the great Router ? The great pork man . 
His son is the one who is so attentive to Miss Dangerlie . 
I am glad he closed the drawer , said Floyd , quietly . 
He is said to be engaged to her , said the gentleman . 
He is not engaged to her , said Floyd . 
Later on he was talking to Miss Dangerlie . 
He had taken her out of the throng . 
Do you know who introduced me to you ? he asked . 
No , a little girl . 
Who ? Why , don't you remember ! I am surprised . 
It was just in the doorway ! Oh ! yes , I remember well enough . 
I met a beauty there , but I did not care for her . 
I met you first on the stairway , and a child introduced me . 
Children interest me , they always admire one , she said . 
They interest me , I always admire them , he said . 
She was silent , then changed the subject . 
A singular little incident befell me this evening , she said . 
As I was coming home from a luncheon party , a wretched woman stopped me and asked me to let her look at me . 
You did it , of course , he said . 
She looked at him with her eyes wide open with surprise . 
What do you suppose a man said to me upstairs ? he asked her . 
What ? That you were engaged to someone . 
What ! That I was engaged ! To whom , pray ? She looked incredulous . 
To a fellow I saw up there Mr. Router' , I think he said was his name . 
The idea ! Engaged to Mr. Router ! You did not believe him , did you ? No , of course I did not I trust you entirely . 
She buried her face in the roses she held in her hand , and did not speak . 
Her other hand rested on the arm of her chair next him . 
It was fine and white . 
He laid his on it firmly , and leaning towards her , said , I beg your pardon for mentioning it . 
I am not surprised that you are hurt . 
I could not care for you so much if I did not believe in you . 
It was so kind in you to send me these roses , she said . 
Aren't they beautiful ? She turned them round and gazed at them with her face slightly averted . 
Yes , they are , and yet I hate to see them tied that way I ordered them sent to you loose . 
I always like to think of you as arranging roses . 
Yes , I love to arrange them myself , she said . 
The fact is , as beautiful as those are , I believe I like better the old fashioned roses right out of the dew . 
I suppose it is old association . 
But I know an old garden up at an old country place , where my mother used to live as a girl . 
It used to be filled up with roses , and I always think of the roses there as sweeter than any others in the world . 
Yes , I like the old fashioned roses best too , she said , with that similarity of taste which always pleased him . 
The next time I come to see you I am going to bring you some of those roses , he said . 
My mother used to tell me of my father going out and getting them for her , and I would like you to have some of them . 
How far is it from your home ? Fifteen or twenty miles . 
But you cannot get them there . 
Oh ! yes , I can the fact is , I own the place . 
Oh ! it is not worth anything as land , he said , but I love the association . 
My mother was brought up there , and I keep up the garden just as it was . 
You shall have the roses . 
Some day I want to see you among them . 
Just then there was a step behind him . 
Is it ours ? she asked someone over her shoulder . 
It was the son of the great Router . 
She turned to Floyd , and said , in an earnest undertone , I am very sorry but I had an engagement . 
She held out her hand . 
Floyd took it and pressed it . 
Good by , he said , tenderly . 
She took the son of the great Router's arm . 
One afternoon , a month after Miss Dangerlie's reception , Henry Floyd was packing his trunk . 
He had just looked at his watch , when there was a ring at the bell . 
He knew it was the postman , and a soft look came over his face as he reflected that even if he got no letter he would see her within a few hours . 
A large box of glorious old fashioned roses was on the floor near him , and a roll of money and a time table lay beside it . 
He had ridden thirty miles that morning to get and bring the roses himself for one whom he always thought of in connection with them . 
A letter was brought in , and a pleased smile lit up the young man's face as he saw the handwriting . 
He laid on the side of the trunk a coat that he held , and then sat down on the arm of a chair and opened the letter . 
His hand stroked it softly as if it were of velvet . 
He wore a pleased smile as he began to read . 
Then the smile died away and a startled look took its place . 
The color faded out of his face , and his mouth closed firmly . 
When he was through he turned back and read the letter all over again , slowly . 
It seemed hard to understand for after a pause he read it over a third time . 
Then he looked straight before him for a moment , and then slowly tore it up into thin shreds and crumpled them up in his hand . 
Ten minutes later he rose from his seat and dropped the torn pieces into the fireplace . 
He walked over and put on his hat and coat , and going out , pulled the door firmly to behind him . 
The trunk , partly packed , stood open with the half folded coat hanging over its edge and with the roses lying by its side . 
Announcement of Engagement Router and Dangerlie , was the heading on which his eye rested . 
That night Henry Floyd wrote a letter . 
This was the close of it Possibly your recollection may hereafter trouble you . 
I wish to say that I do not hold you accountable in any way . 
That night a wretched creature , half beggar , half worse , was standing on the street under a lamp . 
She glanced at him timidly . 
He was looking at her , but it would not do to speak to him , he was a gentleman going somewhere . 
His hands were full of roses . 
He posted a letter in the box , then to her astonishment he stopped at her side and spoke to her . 
Here are some roses for you , he said , and here is some money . 
He pushed the roses and money into her hands , and turning , went back up the dim street . 
Yet , as the conversation had proceeded , it had taken a reminiscent turn . 
As the conversation proceeded around the fireplace , however , one after another joined the group there , until the circle included every man in the room . 
I haven't made up my mind I'm not sure that I can go so far as Virginia , and I have an invitation to a delightful place a house party near here . 
Newton , anybody would know that you were a Virginian , said McPheeters , by the way you stand before that fire . 
That was thirty three years ago , said Newton , slowly , as if he were doling the years from his memory . 
Newton , is your father living ? asked Lesponts . 
No , but my mother is , he said she still lives at the old home in the country . 
Old times were ransacked and Christmas experiences in them were given without stint , and the season was voted , without dissent , to have been far ahead of Christmas now . 
This was surprising enough to have gained him a hearing anyhow , but the memory of the occasion was evidently sufficiently strong to carry Lesponts over obstacles , and he went ahead . 
Well , I went South one winter just at Christmas , and I took that train by accident . 
This was the day before Christmas eve and I was due to arrive in New Orleans Christmas day , some time . 
Well , when I got to Washington there was not a berth to be had for love or money , and I was in a pickle . 
It leaves about this time , and if you hurry you may be able to catch it . 
He looked at his watch Yes , you've just about time to stand a chance everything is late to day , there are such crowds , and the snow and all . 
I thanked him , feeling like a dog over my ill temper and rudeness to him , and decided to try . 
Anything was better than New York , Christmas day . 
So I jumped into a carriage and told the driver to drive like the the wind , and he did . 
I found the car and the conductor standing outside of it by the steps . 
The first thing that struck me was his appearance . 
Some were querulous , some good natured , and all impatient , but he answered them all with imperturbable good humor . 
It was very cold , so I pushed my way into the crowd . 
I pushed my way in and asked him , in my most dulcet tone , if I could get an upper berth to New Orleans . 
I called him Captain' , thinking him a pompous old fellow . 
Hold on , then , I'll take that lower , called the man who had spoken before , over the crowd , I spoke for it first . 
No you won't , said the Captain , who went on writing . 
The man pushed his way in angrily , a big , self assertive fellow he was evidently smarting from his first repulse . 
What's that ? I did , I say . 
I was here before that man got here , and asked you for a lower berth , and you said they were all taken . 
The Captain stopped and looked at him . 
My dear sir , I know you did but this gentleman has a lady along . 
But the fellow was angry . 
Just then a lady , who had come out on the steps , spoke to the Captain about her seat in the car . 
He turned to her My dear madam , you are all right , just go in there and take your seat anywhere when I come in I will fix everything . 
Go straight into that car and don't come out in this cold air any more . 
The lady went back and the old fellow said , Nick , go in there and seat that lady , if you have to turn every man out of his seat . 
Then , as the porter went in , he turned back to his irate friend . 
The man fell back , baffled and humbled , and we all enjoyed it . 
Still , I was without a berth , so , with some misgiving , I began Captain ? He turned to me . 
Oh ! you want to go to New Orleans ? Yes , to spend Christmas any chance for me ? He looked at his watch . 
My dear young sir , he said , go into the car and take a seat , and I'll do the best I can with you . 
I went in , not at all sure that I should get a berth . 
The first person I looked for when I entered the car was , of course , the sick woman . 
I soon picked her out a sweet , frail looking lady , with that fatal , transparent hue of skin and fine complexion . 
She was all muffled up , although the car was very warm . 
Every seat was either occupied or piled high with bags . 
Well , the train started , and in a little while the Captain came in , and the way that old fellow straightened things out was a revelation . 
He took charge of the car and ran it as if he had been the Captain of a boat . 
At first some of the passengers were inclined to grumble , but in a little while they gave in . 
As for me , I had gotten an upper berth and felt satisfied . 
When I waked up next morning , however , we were only a hundred and fifty miles from Washington , and were standing still . 
There had been an accident on the road . 
The train which was coming north had jumped the track at a trestle and torn a part of it away . 
Two or three of the trainmen had been hurt . 
There was no chance of getting by for several hours more . 
It was a blue party that assembled in the dressing room , and more than one cursed his luck . 
One man was talking of suing the company . 
I was feeling pretty gloomy myself , when the Captain came in . 
Someone asked promptly how long we should be there . 
I can't tell you , sir , but some little time several hours . 
You'll have time to go over the battle field , said the Captain , still cheerily . 
We are close to the field of one of the bitterest battles of the war . 
And then he proceeded to tell us about it briefly . 
He said , in answer to a question , that he had been in it . 
On which side , Captain ? asked someone . 
Sir ! with some surprise in his voice . 
On which side ? On our side , sir , of course . 
We decided to go over the field , and after breakfast we did . 
We walked back over the hills , and I never enjoyed a walk more . 
I felt as if I had got new strength from the cold air . 
The old fellow stopped at a little house on our way back , and went in whilst we waited . 
When he came out he had a little bouquet of geranium leaves and lemon verbena which he had got . 
Some one intent on knowledge asked him how much he paid for them ? He said , Paid for them ! Nothing . 
Did you know them before ? he asked . 
A little while afterwards I saw him asleep in a seat , but when the train started he got up . 
The old Captain by this time owned the car . 
His porter , Nicholas , was his admirable second not a porter at all , but a body servant as different from the ordinary Pullman car porter as light from darkness . 
In fact , it turned out that he had been an old servant of the Captain's . 
I asked him what was the trouble . 
Oh ! no trouble at all , sir he just didn't know his place , and I taught him . 
I soon taught him better . 
He was impertinent , and I put him off the train . 
After that I told them that I must have my own servant if I was to remain with them , and I got Nick . 
He is an excellent boy . 
The black is a capital servant , sir , when he has sense , far better than the mulatto . 
I became very intimate with the old fellow . 
You could not help it . 
He had a way about him that drew you out . 
I told him I was going to New Orleans to pay a visit to friends there . 
He said , Got a sweetheart there ? I was rather taken aback but I told him , Yes . 
He said he knew it as soon as I spoke to him on the platform . 
He asked me who she was , and I told him her name . 
He said to me , Ah ! you lucky dog . 
I told him I did not know that I was not most unlucky , for I had no reason to think she was going to marry me . 
He said , You tell her I say you'll be all right . 
I felt better , especially when the old chap said , I'll tell her so myself . 
She always travelled with him when she came North , he said . 
I began to think Christmas on the cars wasn't quite so bad after all . 
He drew me on , and before I knew it I had told him all about myself . 
It was the queerest thing I had no idea in the world of talking about my matters . 
He told me about his own case , and it wasn't so different from mine . 
She was a beautiful girl , he said , and the greatest belle in the country round . 
Well , I didn't know what to do . 
But just then the war came on , and it was a Godsend to me . 
I went in first thing . 
I made up my mind to go in and fight like five thousand furies , and I thought maybe that would win her , and it did it worked first rate . 
The war fixed me all right , though . 
When I went home that first time my wife had come right around , and as soon as I was well enough we were married . 
I always said if I could find that Yankee that shot me I'd like to make him a present . 
I WAS afraid of her , too . 
I bet that's your trouble , sir are you afraid of her ? I told him I thought I was . 
Well , sir , he said , it will never do you mustn't let her think that never . 
You cannot help being afraid of her , for every man is that but it is fatal to let her know it . 
Stand up , sir , stand up for your rights . 
You must consider this , however , that her way after marriage is always laid down to her with reference to your good . 
This sounded so much like sense that I asked him how much a man ought to stand from a woman . 
Stand , sir ? he said why , everything , everything that does not take away his self respect . 
I said I believed if he'd let a woman do it she'd wipe her shoes on him . 
Why , of course she will , he said , and why shouldn't she ? A man is not good enough for a good woman to wipe her shoes on . 
But if she's the right sort of a woman she won't do it in company , and she won't let others do it at all she'll keep you for her own wiping . 
There's a lot of sense in that , Lesponts , said one of his auditors , at which there was a universal smile of assent . 
Lesponts said he had found it out , and proceeded . 
Well , we got to a little town in Virginia , I forget the name of it , where we had to stop a short time . 
The Captain had told me that his home was not far from there , and his old company was raised around there . 
He did not know that he'd find any of them out to day , as it was Christmas , and they would all be at home , he said . 
As the train drew up I went out on the platform , however , and there was quite a crowd assembled . 
I was surprised to find it so quiet , for at other places through which we had passed they had been having high jinks firing off crackers and making things lively . 
Here the crowd seemed to be quiet and solemn , and I heard the Captain's name . 
Just then he came out on the platform , and someone called out There he is , now ! and in a second such a cheer went up as you never heard . 
They crowded around the old fellow and shook hands with him and hugged him as if he had been a girl . 
I suppose you have reference to the time before you were married , interrupted someone , but Lesponts did not heed him . 
We were going to give you a big funeral , Captain , said one old fellow they've got you while you are living , but we claim you when you are dead . 
We ain't going to let 'em have you then . 
We're going to put you to sleep in old Virginia . 
The old fellow was much affected , and made them a little speech . 
He introduced us to them all . 
She'd be a little low down at his not getting there , he said , as he had never missed a Christmas day at home since . 
When dinner time came he was invited in by pretty nearly everyone in the car , but he declined he said he had to attend to a matter . 
I was going in with a party , but I thought the old fellow would be lonely , so I waited and insisted on his dining with me . 
Well , they were on hand when we got there , and we took them aboard , and the old fellow made one of the finest eggnoggs you ever tasted in your life . 
It was offered to the ladies first , of course , and then the men assembled in the smoker and the Captain did the honors . 
And , gentlemen , he said , there are two toasts I always like to propose at this time , and which I will ask you to drink . 
The first is to my wife . 
It was drunk , you may believe . 
And the second is , My friends all mankind . 
This too , was drunk , and just then someone noticed that the old fellow had nothing but a little water in his glass . 
Why , Captain , he said , you are not drinking ! that is not fair . 
Nick , there , will drink my share , however , when you are through he isn't held up to quite such high accountability . 
And sure enough , Nick drained off a glass and made a speech which got him a handful of quarters . 
Well , of course , the old Captain owned not only the car , but all in it by this time , and we spent one of the jolliest evenings you ever saw . 
The glum fellow who had insisted on his rights at Washington made a little speech , and paid the Captain one of the prettiest compliments I ever heard . 
That was I. The old fellow had given the grumbler his lower' in the smoking room , and had given me his upper' . 
The fellow made him a very handsome apology before us all , and the Captain had his own berth that night , you may believe . 
Well , we were all on the qui vive' to see the Captain's wife when we got to New Orleans . 
The Captain had told us that she always came down to the station to meet him so we were all on the lookout for her . 
I promised him to go one day , though I could not go the first day . 
Well , the meeting between the old fellow and his wife was worth the trip to New Orleans to see . 
As I did not see her , I watched the Captain . 
He got off , and I missed him in the crowd . 
The Captain's manner , however , was beautiful . 
Well , that's all , said Lesponts I did not mean to talk so much , but the old Captain is such a character , I wish you could know him . 
You'd better believe I went , and I never had a nicer time . 
They were just as poor as they could be , in one way , but in another they were rich . 
He had a sweet little home in their three rooms . 
I found that my friend always dined with them one day in the Christmas week , and I happened to hit that day . 
That was the beginning of my good fortune , he said , slowly , and then stopped . 
Most of the party knew Lesponts's charming wife , so no further explanation was needed . 
One of them said presently , however , Lesponts , why didn't you fellows get him some better place ? He was offered a place , said Lesponts . 
Meantime , they were very comfortable and well satisfied . 
There was a pause after Lesponts ended , and then one of the fellows rang the bell and said , Let's drink the old Captain's health , which was unanimously agreed to . 
Thus , modern progress had not greatly interfered with it either for good or bad , and its development was entirely natural . 
It is rather of the unknown tract , which lay vague and undefined in between the several neighborhoods of the upper end . 
The history of the latter , however , is unrecorded . 
What title they had to their lands originally , or how they traced it back , or where they had come from , no one knew . 
They had the names of the old English gentry , and were a clean limbed , blond , blue eyed people . 
were the leaders of the rival factions of the district . 
But though the two places lay within rifle shot of each other , they were almost as completely divided as if the big river below had rolled between them . 
Since the great fight between old Darby and Cove Mills over Henry Clay , there had rarely been an election in which some members of the two families had not had a clinch . 
Meantime children were children , and they need not be worried with things like grown up folk . 
Few people knew the plain , homely , hard working man , or wholly understood him . 
It was hard for a Stanley to have to follow a Mills in anything . 
So they stood out for a year . 
Take off your hat , said the teacher , and he took it off slowly . 
I suppose you can read ? was the first question . 
No. A snicker ran round the room , and little Darby's brow clouded . 
He could hear the titter around him , and a lowering look came into his blue eyes . 
He glanced sideways down the bench opposite . 
It happened that the next seat to his was that of Vashti Mills , who was at that time just nine . 
She was not laughing , but was looking at Darby earnestly , and as he caught her eye she nodded to him , Good mornin' . 
She handed him a book . 
He took it and looked at it as if it were something that might explode . 
His mind was on other things . 
He did not court popularity , was rather cold and unapproachable , and Vashti Mills was about the only other scholar with whom he seemed to be on warm terms . 
In return , he worshipped the ground she walked on , and whichever side Vashti was on , Darby was sure to be on it too . 
He now stopped altogether , giving the teacher as his reason , with characteristic brevity Got to work . 
She gave him when he went away the little Testament she had gotten as a prize , and which was one of her most cherished possessions . 
Vashti alone felt a void and found by its sudden absence how great a force was the steady backing of one who could always be counted on to take one's side without question . 
The name was fastened on her , and it clung to her until , as time went on , she came to almost hate the poor innocent cause of it . 
Meantime Darby , beginning to fill out and take on the shoulders and form of a man , began to fill also the place of the man in his little home . 
This among other things meant opposition , if not hostility , to everything on Cove Mills's side . 
When old Darby died the Millses all went to the funeral , of course but that did not prevent their having the same feeling toward Little Darby afterward , and the breach continued . 
Thus the young fellow was thrown back on himself , and the hostility between the two cabins was as great as ever . 
The Mills's enmity was well understood , and there were not wanting those to take Darby's side . 
These asked in proof of their view , why he had declined to fight when Old Cove had abused him so to his face . 
And the weight of opinion was that , that Vashti Mills was gettin' too airified and set up anyways . 
All this reached Mrs. Stanley , and was no doubt sweet to her ears . 
The old woman gazed after him silently until he disappeared , and then gave a look across to where the Mills cabin peeped from among the pines , which was full of hate . 
The question was on one side , Secession , with probable war and on the other , the Union as it was . 
The Millses were for the candidate who advocated the latter , and Little Darby was for him who wanted secession . 
Both candidates were men of position and popularity , the one a young man and the other older , and both were neighbors . 
The older man was elected , and shortly the question became imminent , and all the talk about the Cross roads was of war . 
As time had worn on , Little Darby , always silent , had become more and more so , and seemed to be growing morose . 
At last one day the news that came to the Cross roads was that there was to be war . 
It had been in the air for some time , but now it was undoubted . 
It came in the presence of Mr. Douwill himself , who had come the night before and was commissioned by the Governor to raise a company . 
There were a number of people there quite a crowd for the little Cross roads for the stir had been growing day by day , and excitement and anxiety were on the increase . 
The papers had been full of secession , firing on flags , raising troops , and everything but that was far off . 
When Mr. Douwill appeared in person it came nearer , though still few , if any , quite took it in that it could be actual and immediate . 
Little Darby was also there , silent as usual , but with a light burning in his blue eyes . 
That evening , when Little Darby reached home , which he did somewhat earlier than usual , he announced to his mother that he had enlisted as a soldier . 
Darby got up and found her a better one , which she took without a word . 
Whatever entered into her soul in the little cabin that night , when Mrs. Stanley went among her neighbors she was a soldier's mother . 
She even went over to Cove Mills's on some pretext connected with Darby's going . 
Vashti was not at home , but Mrs. Mills was , and she felt a sudden loss , as if somehow the Millses had fallen below the Stanleys . 
She talked of it for several days she could not make out entirely what it was . 
The two women found themselves together once during the day , and their eyes met . 
It was just as the line of soldiers passed . 
Those of the elder lighted with a sudden spark of mingled triumph and hate , those of the younger flashed back for a moment and then fell beneath the elder's gaze . 
She left the place earlier than most of the crowd , but not until after the drill was over and some of the young soldiers had gone home . 
At last one night a summons came for the company to assemble at the Cross roads next day with arms and equipment . 
There was the greatest excitement and enthusiasm . 
This was war ! And everyone was ready to meet it . 
Little Darby escorted his mother home , taciturn as ever . 
As the young fellow stood in the door looking out with the evening light upon him , his tall , straight figure filled it as if it had been a frame . 
He stood perfectly motionless for some minutes , gazing across the gum thickets before him . 
Whether he saw it or not , one could hardly have told , for his face wore a reminiscent look . 
Figures moved backward and forward over there , came out and went in , without his look changing . 
Even Vashti , faintly distinguishable in her gay dress , came out and passed down the hill alone , without his expression changing . 
It was , perhaps , fifteen minutes later that he seemed to awake , and after a look over his shoulder stepped from the door into the yard . 
His mother was cooking , and he strolled down the path across the little clearing and entered the pines . 
Insensibly his pace quickened he strode along the dusky path with as firm a step as if it were broad daylight . 
A quarter of a mile below the path crossed the little stream and joined the path from Cove Mills's place , which he used to take when he went to school . 
He crossed at the old log and turned down the path through the little clearing there . 
The next moment he stood face to face with Vashti Mills . 
Her hat was in her hand . 
He stood still , but did not stand aside to let her pass , until she made an imperious little gesture and stepped as if she would have passed around him . 
But she did not appear in a hurry to avail herself of the freedom offered , she simply looked at him . 
He took off his cap sheepishly enough , and said , Good evenin' . 
Good evenin' , she said , and then , as the pause became embarrassing , she said , Hear you're agoin' away to morrer ? Yes to morrer mornin' . 
When you're acomin' back ? she asked , after a pause in which she had been twisting the pink string of her hat . 
Don't know may be never . 
An overpowering impulse changed her and forced her to say I don't know as anybody does either I know as I don't . 
Maybe she will a little . 
What answer she might have made to this was prevented by him for he suddenly held out his hand with something in it , saying , Here . 
It was the only book she had ever possessed as her very own . 
I brought this thinking as how maybe you might 'a' wanted me to keep it , he was going to say but he checked himself and said might 'a' wanted it back . 
Before she could recover from the surprise of finding the book in her hand her own , he was gone . 
The words only came to her clearly as his retreating footsteps grew fainter and his tall figure faded in the darkening light . 
There were few houses in the district or in the county where lights did not burn all that night . 
The two Mills boys slept stretched out on the one bed in the little centre room . 
The younger woman did most of the sewing . 
Her fingers were suppler than her mother's , and she scarcely spoke except to answer the latter's querulous questions . 
Presently a rooster crowed somewhere in the distance , and almost immediately another crowed in answer closer at hand . 
Thar's the second rooster crow , it's gittin' erlong toward the mornin' , said the elder woman . 
The young girl made no answer , but a moment later rose and , laying aside the thing she was sewing , walked to the low door and stepped out into the night . 
When she returned and picked up her sewing again , her mother said I de clar , Vashti , you drinks mo' water than anybody I ever see . 
To which she made no answer . 
Air they a stirrin' over at Mis's Stanley's ? asked the mother . 
Other folks has somebody somebody to take keer on 'em . 
Not that he was much account to her , ner to anybody else , except for goin' aroun' a fightin' and a fussin' . 
He was account to her , flamed up the girl , suddenly he was account to her , to her and to everybody else . 
He was the fust soldier that 'listed , and he's account to everybody . 
Well , well , I ain't sayin' nothin' against him , she said , presently . 
Yes , you air you're always sayin' somethin' against him and so is everybody else and they ain't fitten to tie his shoes . 
The old woman was evidently bound to defend herself . 
She said It don't lay in your mouth to take up for him , Vashti Mills for you're the one as has gone up and down and abused him scandalous . 
Yes , and I know I did , said the girl , springing up excitedly and tossing her arms and tearing at her ribbons . 
An' I told him to his face too , and that's the only good thing about it . 
He could 'a' whipped the whole company an' he jest wouldn't an' that's God's truth God's fatal truth . 
The sound of an axe was already coming through the darkness across the gum thickets from Mrs. Stanley's , telling that preparation was being made for Darby's last breakfast . 
It might have told more , however , by its long continuance for it meant that Little Darby was cutting his mother a supply of wood to last till his return . 
Inside , the old woman , thin and faded , was rubbing his musket . 
He had been the first soldier in the district to enlist , he must be on time . 
He paused just long enough to give one swift glance around the little clearing , and then set out along the path at his old swinging pace . 
At the edge of the pines he turned and glanced back . 
His mother was standing in the door , but whether she saw him or not he could not tell . 
He waved his hand to her , but she did not wave back , her eyes were failing somewhat . 
The next instant he disappeared in the pines . 
It could not have been a squirrel , for it did not move after it fell . 
His old hunter's instinct caused him to look keenly down the path as he turned the clump of bushes which stopped his view but he saw no squirrel or other moving thing . 
The only thing he saw was a little brown something with a curious spot on it lying in the path some little way ahead . 
As he came nearer it , he saw that it was a small parcel not as big as a man's fist . 
Someone had evidently dropped it the evening before . 
He picked it up and examined it as he strode along . 
Darby opened this , and his gun almost slipped from his hand . 
Inside was the Testament he had given back to Vashti the evening before . 
He stopped stock still , and gazed at it in amazement , turning it over in his hand . 
He recognized the bow of pink ribbon as one like that which she had had on her dress the evening before . 
She must have dropped it . 
Then it came to him that she must have given it to one of her brothers , and a pang shot through his heart . 
But how did it get where he found it ? He was too keen a woodsman not to know that no footstep had gone before his on that path that morning . 
He unbuttoned his jacket and put it into the little inner pocket , and then rebuttoning it carefully , stepped out again more briskly than before . 
It was perhaps an hour later that the Mills boys set out for the Cross roads . 
Their father and mother went with them but Vashti did not go . 
When they were gone she sat down in the door , limp and dejected . 
Once she went over almost to Mrs. Stanley's , then turned back and sat down again . 
So the morning passed , and the first thing she knew , her father and mother had returned . 
They were to march to the bridge that night . 
She heard them talking over the appearance that they had made the speech of the captain the cheers that went up as they marched off the enthusiasm of the crowd . 
Her father was in much excitement . 
Suddenly she seized her sun bonnet and slipped out of the house and across the clearing , and the next instant she was flying down the path through the pines . 
She knew the road they had taken , and a path that would strike it several miles lower down . 
She ran like a deer , up hill and down , availing herself of every short cut , until , about an hour after she started , she came out on the road . 
Clambering up a bank , she concealed herself and lay down . 
When Vashti brought up the cow that night it was later than usual . 
It perhaps was fortunate for her that the change made by the absence of the boys prevented any questioning . 
After all the excitement her mother was in a fit of despondency . 
Her father sat in the door looking straight before him , as silent as the pine on which his vacant gaze was fixed . 
Even when the little cooking they had was through with and his supper was offered him , he never spoke . 
He ate in silence and then took his seat again . 
Even Mrs. Mills's complaining about the cow straying so far brought no word from him any more than from Vashti . 
He sat silent as before , his long legs stretched out toward the fire . 
The glow of the embers fell on the rough , thin face and lit it up , bringing out the features and making them suddenly clear cut and strong . 
It might have been only the fire , but there seemed the glow of something more , and the eyes burnt back under the shaggy brows . 
The two women likewise were silent , the elder now and then casting a glance at her husband . 
She offered him his pipe , but he said nothing , and silence fell as before . 
Presently she could stand it no longer . 
I de clar , Vashti , she said , I believe your pappy takes it most harder than I does . 
The girl made some answer about the boys . 
The two women were both on their feet in a second . 
Their faces were white and their hands were clenched under the sudden stress , their breath came fast . 
The older woman was the first to speak . 
She did not talk much . 
I'll teck care o' us all , repeated the girl once more . 
It might have seemed accidental , but Mrs. Stanley was the first person in the district to know that all the Mills men were gone to the army . 
II The company in which Little Darby and the Millses had enlisted was one of the many hundred infantry companies which joined and were merged in the Confederate army . 
It was in no way particularly signalized by anything that it did . 
It was commanded by the gentleman who did most toward getting it up and the officers were gentlemen . 
The war was very different from what those who went into it expected it to be . 
Until it had gone on some time it seemed mainly marching and camping and staying in camp , quite uselessly as seemed to many , and drilling and doing nothing . 
Much of the time especially later on was given to marching and getting food but drilling and camp duties at first took up most of it . 
This was especially hard on the poorer men , no one knew what it was to them . 
Some moped , some fell sick . 
Of the former class was Little Darby . 
Little Darby was hardly distinguished at all , unless by the fact that he was somewhat taller than most of his comrades and somewhat more taciturn . 
He was only a common soldier of a common class in an ordinary infantry company , such a company as was common in the army . 
He still had the little wallet which he had picked up in the path that morning he left home . 
He was never on specially good terms with the Millses . 
Indeed , there was always a trace of coolness between them and him . 
He could not give it to them . 
Now and then he untied and unwrapped it in a secret place and read a little in the Testament , but that was all . 
He never touched a needle or so much as a pin , and when he untied the parcel he generally counted them to see that they were all there . 
He was hardly known for a long time , except for his silence , outside of his mess . 
Even when he was sent out on the skirmish line as a sharp shooter , if he did anything no one knew it . 
The infantry , after a gallant and hopeless charge , were ordered to lie down in the ditch behind the pike , and were sheltered from the leaden sleet which swept the crest . 
The only way was up the pike , and the only break was a gate opening into the field right on top of the hill . 
The gate was gone , but two huge wooden gate posts , each a tree trunk , still stood and barred the way . 
No cannon had room to turn in between them a battery had tried and a pile of dead men , horses , and debris marked its failure . 
A general officer galloped up with two or three of his staff to try to start the advance again . 
If we could get a couple of batteries into that field for three minutes , he said , it would do the work , but in ten minutes it will be too late . 
The company from the old county was lying behind the bank almost exactly opposite the gate , and every word could be heard . 
A great cheer went up and the axeman swung back across the road just as two batteries of artillery tore through the opening he had made . 
Few men outside of his company knew who the man was , and few had time to ask for the battle was on again and the infantry pushed forward . 
As for Little Darby himself , the only thing he said was , I knowed I could cut it down in ten minutes . 
He had nine bullet holes through his clothes that night , but Little Darby thought nothing of it , and neither did others many others had bullet holes through their bodies that night . 
It is a fine old name , said the visitor . 
And he is a fine man , said the captain but none of this was ever known by Darby . 
He was not mentioned in the gazette , because there was no gazette . 
The confederate soldiery had no honors save the approval of their own consciences and the love of their own people . 
Poor at all times , the people of the district were now absolutely without means of subsistence . 
Fortunately for them , they were inured to hardship and their men being all gone to the war , the women made such shift as they could and lived as they might . 
They hoed their little patches , fished the streams , and trapped in the woods . 
But it was poor enough at best , and the weak went down and only the strong survived . 
Mrs. Mills was better off than most , she had a cow at first , and she had Vashti . 
Vashti turned out to be a tower of strength . 
, but for Vashti she could not have got along at all , and there were many other women in the pines who felt the same thing . 
From having been rather stigmatized as that Vashti Mills , she came to be relied on , and Vashti was consulted and quoted as an authority . 
One cabin alone she never visited . 
The house of old Mrs. Stanley , now almost completely buried under its unpruned wistaria vine , she never entered . 
The best she could make of it to say that Vashti , she always DO do her own way . 
Many a woman went day after day and week after week without even the small portion of coarse corn bread which was ordinarily her common fare . 
, were wanting , and to go too often without anything to give might make them seem like beggars , and that they were not . 
Their husbands and sons were in the army fighting for the South , as well as those from the plantations , and they stood by this fact on the same level . 
The arrogant looks of the negroes were unpleasant , and in marked contrast to the universal graciousness of their owners , but they were slaves and they could afford to despise them . 
Only they must uphold their independence . 
Thus no one outside knew what the women of the district went through . 
When they wrote to their husbands or sons that they were in straits , it meant that they were starving . 
Such a letter meant all the more because they were used to hunger , but not to writing , and a letter meant perhaps days of thought and enterprise and hours of labor . 
As the war went on the hardships everywhere grew heavier and heavier the letters from home came oftener and oftener . 
Many of the men got furloughs when they were in winter quarters , and sometimes in summer , too , from wounds , and went home to see their families . 
When he heard from his mother she was always cheerful and as he knew Vashti had never even visited her , there was no other reason for his going home . 
It was in the late part of the third campaign of the war that he began to think of going . 
He applied for a furlough , but was told that no furloughs would be granted then which then meant that work was expected . 
It came shortly afterward , and Little Darby and the company were in it . 
They still left several men up among the rocks , who from time to time sent a bullet into the line with deadly effect . 
One man , in particular , ensconced behind a rock on the hill side , picked off the men with unerring accuracy . 
Shot after shot was sent at him . 
Just as he did so a puff of white came from the rock , and Ad Mills threw up his hands and fell on his back , like a log , stone dead . 
A groan of mingled rage and dismay went along the line . 
Poor old Cove crept over and fell on the boy's body with a flesh wound in his own arm . 
Fifty shots were sent at the rock , but a puff of smoke from it afterward and a hissing bullet showed that the marksman was untouched . 
It was apparent that he was secure behind his rock bulwark and had some opening through which he could fire at his leisure . 
It was also apparent that he must be dislodged if possible but how to do it was the question no one could reach him . 
The slope down and the slope up to the group of rocks behind which he lay were both in plain view , and any man would be riddled who attempted to cross it . 
It was discussed in the line but everyone knew that no man could get across the ridge alive . 
They were still talking of the impossibility of dislodging the sharp shooter when a man appeared on the edge of the wood . 
He moved swiftly across the sheltered ground , stooping low until he reached the edge of the exposed place , where he straightened up and made a dash across it . 
He was recognized instantly by some of the men of his company as Little Darby , and a buzz of astonishment went along the line . 
What could he mean , it was sheer madness the line of white smoke along the wood and the puffs of dust about his feet showed that bullets were raining around him . 
The next second he stopped dead still , threw up his arms , and fell prone on his face in full view of both lines . 
The men were discussing Little Darby , when someone cried out and pointed to him . 
Between his wound and his grief the old man was nearly helpless , and accepted Darby's silent assistance with mute gratitude . 
The only other message he sent was given at the station just as Cove set out . 
He said Tell Vashti as I got him as done it . 
If there was one thing that troubled him it was that he could not return Vashti the needle case until he replaced the broken needles and there were so many of them broken . 
After this Darby was in some sort known , and was put pretty constantly on sharp shooter service . 
The men went into winter quarters before Darby heard anything from home . 
It came one day in the shape of a letter in the only hand in the world he knew Vashti's . 
What it could mean he could not divine was his mother dead ? This was the principal thing that occurred to him . 
He did not open it immediately . 
His mother must be dead , and this he could not face . 
Nothing else would have made Vashti write . 
At last he went off alone and opened it , and read it , spelling it out with some pains . 
This , however , Darby scarcely read . 
His being was in the letter . 
He was only a few days' march from home and he felt that he could see her and get back before he was wanted . 
So one day he set out in the rain . 
Now a great horror seized him . 
The door was wet and black . 
His mother must be dead . 
He stopped and peered through the darkness at the dim little structure . 
There was a little smoke coming out of the chimney , and the next instant he strode up to the door . 
It was shut , but the string was hanging out and he pulled it and pushed the door open . 
At sight of the figure behind her she pulled herself to her feet , and peered at him through the gloom . 
Darby ! She reached her arms toward him , but tottered so that she would have fallen , had he not caught her and eased her down into her chair . 
As she became a little stronger she made him tell her about the battles he was in . 
Mr. Mills had come to tell her that he had killed the man who killed Ad . 
Darby was not a good narrator , however , and what he had to tell was told in a few words . 
The old woman revived under it , however , and her eyes had a brighter light in them . 
Darby was too much engrossed in taking care of his mother that day to have any thought of any one else . 
He was used to a soldier's scant fare , but had never quite taken in the fact that his mother and the women at home had less even than they in the field . 
He had never seen , even in their poorest days after his father's death , not only the house absolutely empty , but without any means of getting anything outside . 
It gave him a thrill to think what she must have endured without letting him know . 
On hearing it his heart grew hot . 
No doctor could be got to see them , as there was none left in the neighborhood , and but for Mrs. Douwill she did not know what they would have done . 
But Mrs. Douwill was down herself now . 
All his old love seemed suddenly accumulated in his heart , and he determined to go and see her at once , as he had not long to stay . 
Darby , however , having dressed , crossed the flat without much trouble , only getting a little wet in some places where the logs were gone . 
As he turned into the path up the hill , he stood face to face with Vashti . 
She was standing by a little spring which came from under an old oak , the only one on the hill side of pines , and was in a faded black calico . 
He scarcely took in at first that it was Vashti , she was so changed . 
He had always thought of her as he last saw her that evening in pink , with her white throat and her scornful eyes . 
At least , they opened wide when Darby appeared in the path . 
Her hands went up to her throat as if she suddenly wanted breath . 
All of the young man's heart went out to her , and the next moment he was within arm's length of her . 
Her one word was in his ears Darby ! He was about to catch her in his arms when a gesture restrained him , and her look turned him to stone . 
Yer uniform ? she gasped , stepping back . 
Darby was not quick always , and he looked down at his clothes and then at her again , his dazed brain wondering . 
Whar's yer uniform ? she asked . 
At home , he said , quietly , still wondering . 
She seemed to catch some hope . 
Yer got a furlough ? she said , more quietly , coming a little nearer to him , and her eyes growing softer . 
Got a furlough ? he repeated to gain time for thought . 
I I He had never thought of it before the words in her letter flashed into his mind , and he felt his face flush . 
He would not tell her a lie . 
No , I ain't got no furlough , he said , and paused whilst he tried to get his words together to explain . 
But she did not give him time . 
What you doin' with them clo'se on ? she asked again . 
I I he began , stammering as her suspicion dawned on him . 
You're a deserter ! she said , coldly , leaning forward , her hands clenched , her face white , her eyes contracted . 
A what ! he asked aghast , his brain not wholly taking in her words . 
You're a deserter ! she said again and a coward ! All the blood in him seemed to surge to his head and leave his heart like ice . 
He seized her arm with a grip like steel . 
In a few minutes the rain came but the girl did not mind it . 
She stood looking across the bottom until it came in sheets , wetting her to the skin and shutting out everything a few yards away . 
The rain had not prevented Darby from going out he was used to it and he spent most of the day away from home . 
He was in his uniform , which he had put on again the night before as soon as he got home , and the steam rose from it as he sat . 
The other clothes were in a bundle on the floor where he had tossed them the evening before . 
He never moved except when his mother now and then spoke , and then sat down again as before . 
Feeble as she was , the sudden demand on her had awakened the old woman's faculties and she was stronger than might have seemed possible . 
One thing puzzled her in his incoherent mutterings , Darby constantly referred to a furlough and a deserter . 
She knew that he had a furlough , of course but it puzzled her to hear him constantly repeating the words . 
So the day passed and then , Darby's delirium still continuing , she made out to get to a neighbor's to ask help . 
They were members of a home and conscript guard just formed , and when she left them they had learned her errand . 
Fortunately , Darby's illness took a better turn next day , and by sunset he was free from delirium . 
Things had not fared well over at Cove Mills's during these days any more than at Mrs. Stanley's . 
Vashti was in a state of mind which made her mother wonder if she were not going crazy . 
She set it down to the storm she had been out in that evening , for Vashti had not mentioned Darby's name . 
She kept his presence to herself , thinking that thinking so many things that she could not speak or eat . 
Her heart was like lead within her but she could not rid herself of the thought of Darby . 
She could have torn it out for hate of herself and to all her mother's questioning glances she turned the face of a sphinx . 
For two days she neither ate nor spoke . 
She watched the opposite hill through the rain which still kept up something was going on over there , but what it was she could not tell . 
She set off , therefore , up the stream on her own side , thinking to learn something up that way . 
Vashti's heart gave a sudden bound up into her throat . 
She stood aside to let them pass but they drew in and began to question her as to the roads about them . 
Her one thought was of Darby he would be arrested and shot . 
When they questioned her , therefore , she told them of the roads leading to the big river around the fork and quite away from the district . 
She made out that they were trying to reach the big river by a certain road , and marched in the night as well as in the day . 
She admitted that she had never been on that road but once . 
She was no sooner out of hearing of her captors than she began to run with all her speed . 
Her chief thought was of Darby . 
Deserter as he was , and dead to her , he was a man , and could advise her , help her . 
It must have been a little before midnight when she emerged from the pines in front of the Stanley cabin . 
The latch string was out , and she knocked and pushed open the door almost simultaneously . 
All she could make out to say was , Darby . 
The old woman was on her feet , and the young man was sitting up in the bed , by the time she entered . 
Darby was the first to speak . 
What do you want here ? he asked , sternly . 
Darby the Yankees all around , she gasped out on the road yonder . 
The presence of a soldier had given her confidence , and having delivered her message both women left everything else to him . 
His experience or his soldier's instinct told him what they were doing and also how to act . 
They were a raid which had gotten around the body of the army and were striking for the capital and from their position , unless they could be delayed they might surprise it . 
In the face of the emergency a sudden genius seemed to illuminate the young man's mind . 
By the time he was dressed he was ready with his plan Did Vashti know where any of the conscript guard stayed ? Yes , down the road at a certain place . 
Good it was on the way . 
Then he gave her his orders . 
They would find a barricade there and a small force might possibly keep them back . 
And you burn the bridge if you have to do it with your own hand , you hear and now go , he said . 
Yes I'll do it , said the girl obediently and turned to the door . 
The next instant she turned back to him he had his gun and was getting his axe . 
And , Darby ? she began falteringly , her heart in her eyes . 
Every now and then the axeman stopped cutting and listened , and then went on again . 
His practised ear told him that there were only three or four of them , and he took up his gun and climbed up on the barricade and waited . 
Presently the little squad of horsemen came in sight , a mere black group in the road . 
They saw the dark mass lying across the road and reined in then after a colloquy came on down slowly . 
Darby waited until they were within fifty yards of his barricade , and then fired at the nearest one . 
A horse wheeled , plunged , and then galloped away in the darkness , and several rounds from pistols were fired toward him , whilst something went on on the ground . 
Before he could finish reloading , however , the men had turned around and were out of sight . 
In a minute Darby climbed over the barricade and strode up the road after them . 
He paused where the man he had shot had fallen . 
The place in the mud was plain but his comrades had taken him up and carried him off . 
Darby hurried along after them . 
He did not seem at all disturbed by the pistols displayed around him , but seated himself at the fire and looked about in a dull kind of way . 
What do you want ? they asked him , seeing how cool he was . 
Don't you want a guide ? he asked , drawlingly . 
Who are you ? inquired the corporal in charge . 
Some calls me a d'serter , he said , slowly . 
The men all looked at him curiously . 
Well , what do you want ? I thought maybe as you wanted a guide , he said , quietly . 
Oh ! That road down that way is sort o' stopped up , said the man , as if he were carrying on a connected narrative and had not heard him . 
They's soldiers on it too a little fur'er down , and they's done got word you're a comin' that a way . 
What's that ? they asked , sharply . 
Leastways it's stopped up , and I knows a way down this a way in and about as nigh as that , went on the speaker , in the same level voice . 
Where do you live ? they asked him . 
I lives back in the pines here a piece . 
How long have you lived here ? About twenty three years , I b'leeves 'ats what my mother says . 
You know all the country about here ? Ought to . 
Been in the army ? Ahn hahn . 
What did you desert for ? Darby looked at him leisurely . 
'D you ever know a man as 'lowed he'd deserted ? I never did . 
A faint smile flickered on his pale face . 
I'll guide you , he said , slowly . 
Do you guarantee that the bridge on the river is standing and that we can get across ? Hit's standing now , fur as I know . 
Do you understand that you are taking your life in your hand ? Darby looked at him coolly . 
I understand , he said . 
The silence that followed seemed to extend all over the camp . 
The commander was reflecting and the others had their eyes fastened on Darby . 
As for him , he sat as unmoved as if he had been alone in the woods . 
All right , said the leader , suddenly , it's a bargain we'll take your road . 
What do you want ? Could you gi'me a cup o' coffee ? It's been some little time since I had anything to eat , an' I been sort o' sick . 
What he thought of , who might know ? plain poor ignorant unknown marching every step voluntarily nearer to certain and ignominious death for the sake of his cause . 
As day broke they saw a few people who lived near the road , and some of them recognized Darby and looked their astonishment to see him guiding them . 
He must have thought of his mother , old and by herself in her cabin but she would not live long and of Vashti some . 
She had called him a deserter , as the other women had done . 
A verse from the Testament she gave him may have come into his mind he had never quite understood it Blessed are ye when men shall revile ye . 
Was this what it meant ? This and another one seemed to come together . 
It was something about enduring hardship like a good soldier , he could not remember it exactly . 
Yes , he could do that . 
But Vashti had called him a deserter . 
The sun came up and warmed him as he trudged along , and the country grew flatter and flatter , and the road deeper and deeper . 
They were passing down into the bottom . 
Darby waited for this , and when he reached it and saw the bridge still standing his heart sank like lead . 
Other eyes saw it too , and a score of glasses were levelled at it , and a cheer went up . 
Why don't you cheer too ? asked an officer . 
You have more to make or lose than anyone else . 
We ain't there yit , said Darby . 
Once he thought he had seen a little smoke , but it had passed away , and now they were within three miles of the bridge and there was nothing . 
What if , after all , Vashti had failed and the bridge was still standing ! He would really have brought the raiders by the best way and have helped them . 
His heart at the thought came up into his throat . 
He stopped and began to look about as if he doubted the road . 
When the main body came up , however , the commander was in no doubt , and a pistol stuck against his head gave him to understand that no fooling would be stood . 
So he had to go on . 
Now , however , the water was far out in the woods , and long before the girl got in sight of the bridge she was wading up to her knees . 
When she reached the point where she could see it , her heart for a moment failed her the whole flat was under water . 
She remembered Darby's command , however , and her courage came back to her . 
As it grew deeper and deeper until it reached her breast , she took the matches out and held them in her teeth , holding her bundle above her head . 
When she tried to light a fire , however , her matches would not strike . 
They as well as the wood had gotten wet when she slipped , and not one would light . 
She might as well have been at her home in the district . 
When every match had been tried and tried again on a dry stone , only to leave a white streak of smoking sulphur on it , she sat down and cried . 
For the first time she felt cold and weary . 
The rays of the sun fell on her and warmed her a little , and she wiped her eyes on her sleeve and looked up . 
The sun had just come up over the hill . 
She turned and looked the other way from which she had come nothing but a waste of water and woods . 
But there it was again it moved . 
There was another another and something black moving . 
She sprang to her feet and strained her eyes . 
Good God ! they were coming ! In a second she had turned the other way , rushed across the bridge , and was dashing through the water to her waist . 
The water was not wide that way . 
The hill rose almost abruptly on that side , and up it she dashed , and along the road . 
A faint curl of smoke caught her eye and she made for it through the field . 
The rails , however , like everything else , were wet and would not light , and she was in despair . 
At last she got a little blaze started , but it would not burn fast it simply smoked . 
She expected the soldiers to come out of the woods every minute , and every second she was looking up to see if they were in sight . 
A sudden veer of the wind blew the smoke behind her and bent the flames aside , and she could see clear across the fire to the other bank . 
He was bare headed and he waved his hat to her , and she heard a single cheer . 
She waved her hand to him , and there was a little puff of smoke and something occurred in the water among the horses . 
There was a lot of firing both from the edge of the wood and from the horsemen in the water , and Darby had disappeared . 
She made her way back to the bank and plunged into a clump of bushes , where she was hidden and watched the raiders . 
The other she did not see again . 
This is the story of the frustration of the raid upon which so much hope was built by some in high position at Washington . 
A day was lost , and warning was given to the Confederate Government , and the bold plan of the commander of the raiding party was defeated . 
As to Little Darby , the furlough he had applied for came , but came too late and was returned . 
For a time some said he was a deserter but two women knew differently . 
A Federal soldier who was taken prisoner gave an account of the raid . 
Thomas Nelson Page is known primarily for his short stories . 
Born at Oakland Plantation , in Hanover County , Virginia . 
Graduated from Washington and Lee University . 
Received his degree in law from the University of Virginia . 
Some books by Thomas Nelson Page In Ole Virginia . 
A Story of the War . 
A Tale of Old Virginia . 
The Burial of the Guns . 
Young People's Stories of the War . 
