Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com IN THE BISHOP'S CARRIAGE By MIRIAM MICHELSON I. When the thing was at its hottest , I bolted . 
well , Tom drew off the crowd , having passed the old gentleman's watch to me , and I made for the women's rooms . 
Just see if your hat's on straight . 
I did , going up to the big glass and looking beyond my excited face to the room behind me . 
There sat the woman who can never nurse her baby except where everybody can see her , in a railroad station . 
And And I didn't like the look of that man with the cap who opened the swinging door a bit and peeped in . 
The women's waiting room is no place for a man nor for a girl who's got somebody else's watch inside her waist . 
Luckily , my back was toward him , but just as the door swung back he might have caught the reflection of my face in a mirror hanging opposite to the big one . 
I retreated , going to an inner room where the ladies were having the maid brush their gowns , soiled from suburban travel and the dirty station . 
The deuce is in it the way women stare . 
I took off my hat and jacket for a reason to stay there , and hung them up as leisurely as I could . 
There's no meaning in their look . 
If they were men , now , you might twitter . 
And just above it the hat hung , a red cloth toque caught up on the side with some of the same fur . 
The black maid misunderstood my involuntary gesture . 
At any rate , it was the maid's fault . 
She took down the coat and hat and held them for me as though they were mine . 
Anyway , I had both the coat and hat on and was out into the big anteroom in a jiffy . 
What nearly wrecked me was the cut of that coat . 
It positively made me shiver with pleasure when I passed and saw myself in that long mirror . 
Trapped ? Me ? Not much ! I didn't wait a minute , but threw the doors open with a gesture that might have belonged to the Queen of Spain . 
I almost ran into his arms . 
I looked him straight in the eyes , as I hooked the collar close to my throat , and swept past him . 
That coat was too jolly much for him . 
It was for me , too . 
As I ran down the stairs , its influence so worked on me that I didn't know just which Vanderbilt I was . 
I got out on the sidewalk all right , and was just about to take a car when the turnstile swung round , and there was that same man with the cap . 
His face was a funny mixture of doubt and determination . 
But it meant the Correction for me . 
Nance Olden , it's over , I said to myself . 
For it was then that I caught sight of the carriage . 
It was a fat , low , comfortable , elegant , sober carriage , wide and well kept , with rubber tired wheels . 
And the two heavy horses were fat and elegant and sober , too , and wide and well kept . 
I didn't know it was the Bishop's then I didn't care whose it was . 
It was empty , and it was mine . 
I'd rather go to the Correction being too young to get to the place you're bound for , Tom Dorgan in it than in the patrol wagon . 
At any rate , it was all the chance I had . 
I slipped in , closing the door sharply behind me . 
I cursed that collar , which had prevented his hearing the door close , for then he might have driven off . 
I just snuggled down , trust me . 
I leaned far back and lay low . 
When I did peek out the window , I saw the man with the brass buttons and the cap turning to go inside again . 
Victory ! He had lost the scent . 
I didn't dare get out for fear of some other man in a cap and buttons somewhere on the lookout . 
I knew they couldn't be on to my hiding place or they'd have nabbed me before this . 
After a bit I didn't want to get out , I was so warm and comfortable and elegant . 
Asleep ? That's what ! I'd actually been asleep . 
And what did I do now ? That's easy fell asleep again . 
There wasn't anything else to do . 
Not really asleep this time , you know just , just asleep enough to be wide awake to any chance there was in it . 
The horses had started , and the carriage was half way across the street before the Bishop noticed me . 
Lord bless me ! he exclaimed , hurriedly putting on his spectacles , and looking about bewildered . 
I was slumbering sweetly in the corner , but I could see between my lashes that he thought he'd jumped into somebody else's carriage . 
Daddy , I murmured sleepily , letting my head rest on his little , prim shoulder . 
That comforted him , too . 
Hush your laughing , Tom Dorgan I mean calling him daddy seemed to kind of take the cuss off the situation . 
My child , he began very gently . 
Oh , daddy , I exclaimed , snuggling down close to him , you kept me waiting so long I went to sleep . 
I thought you'd never come . 
He put his arm about my shoulders in a fatherly way . 
You know , I found out later the Bishop never had had a daughter . 
I guess he thought he had one now . 
Now , don't get mad . 
Oh , I knew you were kept at the office , I interrupted quickly . 
I preferred to be farther from the station with that girl's red coat before I got out . 
We've missed our train , anyway , haven't we ? After this , daddy dear , let's not take this route . 
If we'd go straight through on the one road , we wouldn't have this drive across town every time . 
I was wondering , before I fell asleep , what in the world I'd do in this big city if you didn't come . 
He forgot to withdraw his arm , so occupied was he by my predicament . 
What would I do ? I gasped indignantly . 
Why , daddy , imagine me alone , and and without money ! Why why , how can you There ! there ! he said , patting me soothingly on the shoulder . 
That baby of a Bishop ! The very thought of Nancy Olden out alone in the streets was too much for him . 
We had got up street as far as the opera house , when we were caught in the jam of carriages in front the last afternoon opera of the season was just over . 
I was so busy thinking what would be my next move that I didn't notice much outside and I didn't want to move , Tom , not a bit . 
Playing the Bishop's daughter in a trailing coat of red , trimmed with chinchilla , is just your Nancy's graft . 
It fell in my lap . 
I jammed it into my coat pocket . 
Where is it now ? Just you wait , Tom Dorgan , and you'll find out . 
I followed the Bishop's eyes . 
His face was scarlet now . 
Her face told it then . 
It was a big , smooth face , with accordion plaited chins . 
Her hair was white and her nose was curved , and the pearls in her big ears brought out every ugly spot on her face . 
But you see it was over in a minute . 
The carriage wheels were unlocked , and the blue coupe went whirling away , and we in the plum cushioned carriage followed slowly . 
I decided that I'd had enough . 
Now and here in the middle of all these carriages was a bully good time and place for me to get away . 
I turned to the Bishop . 
He was blushing like a boy . 
Yes , I did , Tom Dorgan , but it was because I was bursting with laughter . 
Oh , dear ! I exclaimed in sudden dismay . 
No no , my dear , I I'm not , he stammered , his face purple now with embarrassment . 
I covered my face with my hands , and shrinking over into the corner , I cried Let me out ! let me out ! You're not my father . 
Oh , let me out ! Why , certainly , child . 
But I'm old enough , surely , to be , and I wish I wish I were . 
You do ! The dignity and tenderness and courtesy in his voice sort of sobered me . 
But all at once I remembered the face of Mrs. Dowager Diamonds , and I understood . 
Oh , because of her , I said , smiling and pointing to the side where the coupe had been . 
My , but it was a rotten bad move ! I ought to have been strapped for it . 
Oh , Tom , Tom , it takes more'n a red coat with chinchilla to make a black hearted thing like me into the girl he thought I was . 
He stiffened and sat up like a prim little school boy , his soft eyes hurt like a dog's that's been wounded . 
I won't tell you what I did then . 
And you won't understand , but just that minute I cared more for what he thought of me than whether I got to the Correction or anywhere else . 
It made us friends in a minute , and when he stopped the carriage to let me out , my hand was still in his . 
He thought it was his scheme , the poor lamb , to put me in her charge till my lost daddy could send for me . 
I didn't wait for him to finish , but waltzed right in . 
I danced straight up to that side of beef with the diamonds still on it , and flinging my arms about her , turned a coy eye on the Bishop . 
You said your wife was out of town , daddy , I cried gaily . 
Have you got another wife besides mummy ? The poor Bishop ! Do you think he tumbled ? Not a bit not a bit . 
The trouble with the Bishop's set is that it's deadly slow . 
Now , if I had really been the Bishop's daughter all right , I'll go on . 
Oh , mummy , I went on quickly . 
Out there at that awful college , studying and studying and studying , sometimes I thought I'd lose my senses . 
There's a girl out there now suffering from nervous prostration . 
She worked so hard preparing for the mid years . 
What's her name ? I can't think I can't think , my head's so tired . 
But it sounds like mine , a lot like mine . 
Once I think it was yesterday I thought it was mine , and I made up my mind suddenly to come right home and bring it with me . 
But it can't be mine , can it ? It can't be my name she's got . 
It can't be , mummy , say it can't , say it can't ! Tom , I ought to have gone on the stage . 
I'll go yet , when you're sent up some day . 
You'll be where you can't stop me . 
I couldn't see the Bishop , but the Dowager oh , I'd got her . 
Not so bad an old body , either , if you only take her the right way . 
First , she was suspicious , and then she was scared . 
She got me on to a lounge , soft as as marshmallows , and she piled one silk pillow after another behind my back . 
Come , dear , let me help you off with your coat , she cooed , bending over me . 
Oh , mummy , it's so cold ! Can't I please keep it on ? To let that coat off me was to give the whole thing away . 
My rig underneath , though good enough for your girl , Tom , on a holiday , wasn't just what they wear in the Square . 
I let her take the hat , though , and I could see by the way she handled it that it was all right the thing her kind , you know . 
Oh , the girl I got it from had good taste , all right . 
I closed my eyes for a moment as I lay there and she stood stroking my hair . 
Because you are so beautifully clean souled yourself , you must pardon me . 
I am ashamed to say it , but I shall have no rest till I do . 
I wonder if you're all alike . 
No , for there's the Bishop . 
He had taken her hand sympathizingly , forgivingly , but his silence made me curious . 
I knew he wouldn't let the old lady believe for a moment I was luny , if once he could be sure himself that I wasn't . 
When I did , you should have seen him jump . 
I could see the blood rush up under his clear , thin old skin , soft as a baby's , to find himself caught trying to spy out my secret . 
I just looked , big eyed , up at him . 
You know the way Molly's kid does , when he wakes . 
I looked a long , long time , as though I was puzzled . 
Daddy , I said slowly , sitting up . 
You you are my daddy , ain't you ? Yes yes , of course . 
It was the Dowager who got between him and me , hinting heavily at him with nods and frowns . 
But the dear old fellow only got pinker in the effort to look a lie and not say it . 
Still , he looked relieved . 
Evidently he thought I was luny all right , but that I had lucid intervals . 
I heard him whisper something like this to the Dowager just before the maid came in with tea for me . 
Yes , Tom Dorgan , tea for Nancy Olden off a silver salver , out of a cup like a painted eggshell . 
My , but that almost floored me ! I was afraid I'd give myself dead away with all those little jars and jugs . 
So I said I wasn't hungry , though , Lord knows , I hadn't had anything to eat since early morning . 
But the Dowager sent the maid away and took the tray herself , operating all the jugs and pots for me , and then tried to feed me the tea . 
She was about as handy as Molly's little sister is with the baby but I allowed myself to be coaxed , and drank it down . 
Ever taste tea ? If you knew how to behave yourself in polite society , I'd give you a card to my friend , the Dowager , up in the Square . 
How to get away ! That was the thing that worried me . 
Yes oh , yes , you've met him . 
Only , he was a bit mellower than when you grabbed his chain . 
Well , he was Edward . 
I almost dropped the cup when I saw him . 
The Dowager took it from me , saying There , dear , don't be nervous . 
It's only only She got lost . 
It couldn't be my daddy the Bishop was that . 
But it was her husband , so who could it be ? Evening , Bishop . 
Hello , Henrietta , back so soon from the opera ? roared Edward , in a big , husky voice . 
He'd had more since we saw him , but he walked straight as the Bishop himself , and he's a dear little ramrod . 
Miss Miss Murieson , lied the old lady , glibly . 
Why , mummy ! I said reproachfully . 
Isn't it a joke , Edward ? she demanded , laughing uneasily . 
Joke ? he repeated with a hearty bellow of laughter . 
The fun of hearing the Dowager lie and knowing the Bishop beside himself with the pain of deception was too much for me . 
I could see she didn't dare trust her Edward with my sad story . 
Ho ! ho ! The Bishop that's good . 
No , my dear Miss Murieson , if this lady's your mother , why , I must be at least , I ought to be , your father . 
As such , I'm going to have all the privileges of a parent bless me , if I'm not . 
I don't suppose he'd have done it if he'd been sober , but there's no telling , when you remember the reputation the Dowager had given him . 
But he'd got no further than to put his arm around me when both the Bishop and the Dowager flew to the rescue . 
My , but they were shocked ! I couldn't help wondering what they'd have done if Edward had happened to see the Bishop in the same sort of tableau earlier in the afternoon . 
But I got a lucid interval just then , and distracted their attention . 
I stood for a moment , my head bent as though I was thinking deeply . 
I think I'll go now , I said at length . 
I I don't understand exactly how I got here , I went on , looking from the Bishop to the Dowager and back again , or how I happened to miss my father . 
I'm ever so much obliged to you , and if you will give me my hat , I'll take the next train back to college . 
You'll do nothing of the sort , said the Dowager , promptly . 
My dear , you're a sweet girl that's been studying too hard . 
You must go to my room and rest And stay for dinner . 
Sometimes I don't know how I get here myself . 
While the Dowager's back was turned , I gave him the littlest one , in return for his . 
It made him drunker than ever . 
I'll take her to the station The station ! Ugh ! Not Nance Olden , with the red coat still on . 
Impossible , my dear Bishop , interrupted the Dowager . 
She can't be permitted to go back on the train alone . 
Why , Miss Miss Murieson , I'll see you back all the way to the college door . 
Not at all , not at all . 
I wonder how Nance Olden would have done . 
Don't hurry , dear , don't perplex yourself , she whispered anxiously , noting my bewilderment . 
There's plenty of time , and it makes no difference not a particle , really . 
I put my hand to my head . 
I can't think I can't think . 
There's one girl has nervous prostration , and her name's got mixed with mine , and I can't Hush , hush ! Never mind . 
You shall come and lie down in my room . 
You'll stay with us to night , anyway , and we'll have a doctor in , Bishop . 
That's right , assented the Bishop . 
I'll go get him myself . 
You you're not going ! I cried in dismay . 
I hated to see him go . 
It was Edward who went himself to telephone for the doctor , and I saw my time getting short . 
But the Bishop had to go , anyway . 
He looked out at his horses shivering in front of the house , and the sight hurried him . 
My child , he said , taking my hand , just let Mrs. Ramsay take care of you to night . 
Don't bother about anything , but just rest . 
I'll see you in the morning , he went on , noticing that I kind of clung to him . 
Can't you remember what I said to you in the carriage that I wished you were my daughter . 
I wish you were , indeed I do , and that I could take you home with me and keep you , child . 
The Dowager and I passed Edward in the ball . 
He gave me a look behind her back , and I gave him one to match it . 
Just practice , you know , Tom . 
A girl can never know when she'll want to be expert in these things . 
She made me lie down on a couch while she turned the lamp low , and then left me alone in a big palace of a bedroom filled with things . 
And I wanted everything I saw . 
If I could , I'd have lifted everything in sight . 
But every minute brought that doctor nearer . 
There within ten feet of me stood Edward . 
He saw me , and was tiptoeing heavily toward me , when I heard the door click behind me , and in walked the Dowager back again . 
I thought I heard some one out there , I said . 
It frightened me so that I got up to look . 
Nobody could be out there , could they ? She walked to the window and put her head out . 
No , nobody could be out there , she said , breathing hard , but you might get nervous just thinking there might be . 
We'll go to a room upstairs . 
And go we did , in spite of all I could plead about feeling well enough now to go alone and all the rest of it . 
I didn't much care , till I remembered the Bishop . 
No , I couldn't bear that not without a fight , anyway . 
It was for the Bishop I'd got into this part of the scrape . 
I'd get out of it so's he shouldn't know how bad a thing a girl can be . 
While I lay thinking it over , the same maid that had brought me the tea came in . 
She was an ugly , thin little thing . 
People in my set , mine and the Dowager's , don't . 
She had been sent to help me undress , she said , and make me comfortable . 
The doctor lived just around the corner and would be in in a minute . 
Phew ! She wasn't very promising , but she was my only chance . 
I really don't need any help , thank you , Nora , I said , chipper as a sparrow , and remembering the name the Dowager had called her by . 
Aunt Henrietta is too fussy , don't you think ? Oh , of course , you won't say a word against her . 
She told me the other day that she'd never had a maid so sensible and quick witted , too , as her Nora . 
Do you know , I've a mind to play a joke on the doctor when he comes . 
You'll help me , won't you ? Oh , I know you will ! Suddenly I remembered the Bishop's bill . 
I took it out of my pocket . 
Yep , Tom , that's where it went . 
I had to choose between giving that skinny maid the biggest tip she ever got in her life or Nance Olden to the Correction . 
You needn't swear , Tom Dorgan . 
I fancy if I'd got there , you'd got worse . 
No , you bully , you know I wouldn't tell but the police sort of know how to pair our kind . 
In her cap and apron , I let the doctor in and myself out . 
And I don't regret a thing up there in the Square except that lovely red coat with the high collar and the hat with the fur on it . 
I'd give Tom , get me a coat like that and I'll marry you for life . 
No , there's one thing I could do better if it was to be done over again . 
I could make that dear little old Bishop wish harder I'd been his daughter . 
What am I mooning about ? Oh nothing . 
There's the watch Edward's watch . 
Yes , empty handed , Tom Dorgan . 
And I can't honestly say I didn't have the chance , but if my hands are empty my head is full . 
There's a girl I know with short brown hair , a turned up nose and gray eyes , rather far apart . 
You know her , too ? Well , she can't help that . 
Her name may be Nancy when she's in petticoats , but in trousers she's Nathaniel in short , Nat . 
The tips that lady gave the bad boy Nat ! I knew I couldn't make you believe it any other way that's why I passed 'em on to you , Tommy boy . 
The hotel woman , you know , girls , is a hotel woman because she isn't fit to be anything else . 
She's lazy and selfish and little , and she's shifted all her legitimate cares on to the proprietor's shoulders . 
He's the soul of politeness . 
It must be here it must be in this room , says the lady , getting wild with the terror of losing . 
I'm sure positive that I went straight to the shoe bag and slipped it in there . 
And now I can't find it , and I must have it before I go out this afternoon for for a very special reason . 
My daughter Evelyn will be home to morrow and why don't you look for it ? What is it , ma'am ? I told you once . 
My key a little flat key that locks a box I've got , she finishes distrustfully . 
Have you looked in the shoe bag , ma'am ? Why , of course I have , you little stupid . 
I want you to hunt other places where I can't easily get . 
There are other places I might have put it , but I'm positive it was in the shoe bag . 
Well , I looked for that key . 
Where ? Where not ? I looked under the rubbish in the waste paper basket Mrs. Kingdon often fooled thieves by dropping it there . 
I pulled up the corner of the carpet and looked there it was loose it had often been used for a hiding place . 
I looked in Miss Evelyn's boot and in her ribbon box . 
I emptied Mrs. Kingdon's full powder box . 
I climbed ladders and felt along cornices . 
I rummaged through her writing desk , and , in searching a gold cornered pad , found a note from Moriway hidden under the corner . 
I hid it again carefully in my coat pocket . 
A love letter from Moriway , to a woman twenty years older than himself 'tain't a bad lay , Tom Dorgan , but you needn't try it . 
At first she watched every move I made , but later , as her headache grew worse , she got desperate . 
So then I put my hand down into the shoe bag and found the key , where it had slipped under a fold of cloth . 
Do you suppose that woman was grateful ? She snatched it from me . 
I knew it was there . 
I told you it was there . 
If you'd had any sense you'd have looked there first . 
The boys in this hotel are so stupid . 
That's all , ma'am ? She nodded . 
She was fitting the key into the black box she'd taken from the top drawer . 
Nat had got to the outside door when he heard her come shrieking after him . 
Nat Nat come back ! My diamonds they're not here . 
I know I put them back last night I'm positive . 
I could swear to it . 
So he let them lie snug in his trousers pocket where he had put the chamois bag , when his eyes lit on it , under the corner of the carpet . 
He might have passed it over to her then , but you see , Tom , she hadn't told him to look for a bag it was a key she wanted . 
Bell boys are so stupid . 
This time she followed his every step . 
He could not put his hand on the smallest thing without rousing her suspicion . 
If he hesitated , she scolded . 
If he hurried , she fumed . 
Most unjust , I call it , because he had no thought of stealing just then . 
Come , she said at last , we'll go down and report it at the desk . 
Hadn't I better wait here , ma'am , and look again ? She looked sharply at him . 
No you'd better do just as I tell you . 
And we met Mr. Moriway there . 
That was all he knew . 
Is he telling the truth ? Moriway asked Mrs Kingdon . 
Ye es , I guess he is but where are the diamonds ? We must have them you know to day , George , she whispered . 
And then she turned and went upstairs , leaving Moriway to do the rest . 
There's only one thing to do , Major , he said to the proprietor . 
Search 'em all and then Search me ? It's an outrage ! cried the housekeeper . 
Search me if ye loike , growled McCarthy , resentfully . 
Oi wasn't there but a minute the lady herself can tell ye that . 
Katie , the chambermaid , flushed painfully , and there were indignant tears in her eyes , which , I'll tell you in confidence , made a girl named Nancy uncomfortable . 
But the boy Nat knowing that bell boys have no rights , said nothing . 
He thought , Tom Dorgan , a lot of things and a long way ahead . 
The peppery old Major marched us all off to his private office . 
Not much , girls , it hadn't come . 
For suddenly the annunciator rang out . 
Out of the corner of his eye , Nat looked at the bell boy's bench . 
There was to be a ball that night , and the bells were going it over all the place . 
Number Twenty one ! shouted the clerk at the desk . 
But Number Twenty one didn't budge . 
His heart was beating like a hammer , and the ting ng ng of that bell calling him rang in his head like a song . 
Number Twenty one ! yelled the clerk . 
Oh , he's got a devil of a temper , has that clerk . 
Some day , Tom , when you love me very much , go up to the hotel and break his face for me . 
boy confound you , can't you hear ? he shouted . 
That time he caught the Major's ear the one that wasn't deaf . 
He looked from Powers' black face to the bench and then to me . 
And all the time the bell kept ringing like mad . 
Git ! he said to the boy . 
And come back in a hurry . 
Number Twenty one got but leisurely . 
It wouldn't do for a bell boy to hurry , particularly when he had such good cause . 
Oh , girls , those stone stairs , the servants' stairs at the St . 
I tell you , Mag , scrubbing the floors at the Cruelty ain't so bad . 
But this time I was jolly glad bell boys weren't allowed in the elevator . 
For there were those diamonds in my pants pocket , and I must get rid of 'em before I got down to the office again . 
So I climbed those stairs , and every step I took my eye was searching for a hiding place . 
Everything bare as stone and soap could keep it . 
The third flight my knees began to tremble , and not with climbing . 
The call came from this floor . 
But I ran up a fourth just on the chance , and there in a corner was a fire hatchet strapped to the wall . 
Behind that hatchet Mrs. Kingdon's diamonds might lie snug till evening . 
There's something loose with this hatchet , sir , I said , innocently looking down at him . 
Oh , there is ? What an observing little fellow you are ! Never mind the hatchet just tell me what number you were sent to answer . 
Number ? I repeated , as though I couldn't see why he wanted to know . 
Not much , my boy . 
'Scuse me , sir , ain't you mistaken ? He looked at me for full a minute . 
I stared him straight in the eye . 
A nasty eye he's got black and bloodshot and cold and full of suspicion . 
But it wavered a bit at the end . 
I may be , he said slowly , but not about the number . 
Just you turn around and get down to . 
It might have got me in trouble . 
And the goods still on me , Tom , mind that . 
My , but Mrs. Kingdon was wrathy when she saw me ! Why did they send you ? she cried . 
Why did you keep me waiting so long ? I want a chambermaid . 
I've rung a dozen times . 
The whole place is crazy about that old ball to night , and no one can get decent attention . 
Can't I do what you want , ma'am ? I just yearned to get inside that door . 
I don't want a boy to fasten my dress in the back We often do , ma'am , I said softly . 
You do ? Well Yes'm . 
Go down and send me a maid . 
She was just closing the door in my face and Moriway waiting for me to watch me down again . 
Mrs. Kingdon Well , what do you want ? I want to tell you that when I get down to the office they'll search me . 
She looked at me amazed . 
And and there's something in my pocket I you wouldn't like them to find . 
What in the world my diamonds ! You did take them , you little wretch ? She caught hold of my coat . 
But Lordy ! I didn't want to get away a little bit . 
I let her pull me in , and then I backed up against the door and shut it . 
Diamonds ! Oh , no , ma'am . 
I hope I'm not a thief . 
But but it was something you dropped this . 
I fished Moriway's letter out of my pocket and handed it to her . 
The poor old lady ! Being a bell boy you know just how old ladies really are . 
This one at evening , after her face had been massaged for an hour , and the manicure girl and the hair dresser had gone , wasn't so bad . 
I suppose you've told everybody in the office . 
How could I , ma'am ? How could you ? She looked up , the tears on her flabby , flushed cheek . 
I can't read writing It was thin , but she wanted to believe it . 
She could have taken me in her arms , she was so happy . 
There ! there ! she patted my shoulder and gave me a dollar bill . 
I was a bit hasty , Nat . 
It's only a a little business matter that Mr. Moriway's attending to for me . 
We we'll finish it up this afternoon . 
I shouldn't like Miss Kingdon to know of it , because because I never like to worry her about business , you know . 
So don't mention it when she comes to morrow . 
Shall I fasten your dress ? I simply had to stay in that room till I could get rid of those diamonds . 
With a faded old blush the nicest thing about her I'd ever seen she turned her back . 
It's dark to day , ma'am , I coaxed . 
Would you mind coming nearer the window ? No , she wouldn't mind . 
She backed up to the corner like a gentle little lamb . 
While I hooked with one hand , I dropped the little bag where the carpet was still turned up , and with the toe of my shoe spread it flat again . 
You're real handy for a boy , she said , pleased . 
Thank you , ma'am , I answered , pleased myself . 
Moriway was there at the time . 
I knew he wasn't convinced . 
But he couldn't watch a bell boy all day long , and the moment I was sure his eyes were off me I was ready to get those diamonds back again . 
At last I couldn't stand it any longer . 
There's only one thing to do when your chance won't come to you that is , to go to it . 
Just outside of Mrs. Kingdon's window I lay still a minute . 
I had seen her and Moriway go out together she all gay with finery , he carrying her bag . 
The lace curtains in were blowing in the breeze . 
Cautiously I parted them and looked in . 
From where I lay I reached down and turned back the flap of the carpet . 
Those darling diamonds seemed just to leap up into my hand . 
In a moment I had them tucked away in my pants pocket . 
Then down the fire escape and out through , where I told the painter I'd been to get a toy the boy in had dropped out of the window . 
But he paid no attention to me . 
No one did , though I felt those diamonds shining like an X ray through my very body . 
I got downstairs and was actually outside the door , almost in the street and off to you , when a girl called me . 
Here , boy , carry this case , she said . 
How did they look ? Oh , fairly well on a blonde ! But to my taste the last girl I'd seen in the coat and hat was handsomer . 
Well , I carried her suit case and followed her back into the hotel . 
I didn't want to a bit , though that coat still wonder how she got it back ! She sailed up the hall and into the elevator , and I had to follow . 
We got of at the third story , and she brought me right to the door of . 
And then I knew this must be Evelyn . 
Mrs. Kingdon's out , Miss . 
She didn't expect you till to morrow . 
But I Wanted to get here in time for the wedding ? I suggested softly . 
You should have seen her jump . 
Wedding ! Not Mrs. Kingdon and Mr. Moriway . 
Has that man followed her here ? Quick , tell me . 
Has she actually married him ? No not yet . 
It's for five o'clock at the church on the corner . 
How do you know ? She turned on me , suddenly suspicious . 
And I'm the only person in the house that does . 
She took out her key and opened the door , and I followed her in with the suit case . 
And first thing you know we were down in the street , around the corner , and there in front of the church was a carriage with Moriway just helping Mrs. Kingdon out . 
Mother ! At that cry the old lady's knees seemed to crumble under her . 
Her poor old painted face looked out ghastly and ashamed from her wedding finery . 
But Evelyn in her red coat flew to her and took her in her arms as though she was a child . 
And like a child , Mrs. Kingdon sobbed and made excuses and begged to be forgiven . 
It was all the pay I wanted particularly as I had those little diamonds . 
You're just in time , Miss Kingdon , he said uneasily , to make your mother happy by your presence at her wedding . 
I'm just in time , Mr. Moriway , to see that my mother's not made unhappy by your presence . 
Evelyn ! Mrs. Kingdon remonstrated . 
The bride shook her head . 
To morrow , she said feebly . 
I've come to take care of you , you silly little mother , dear . 
It won't be to morrow , Mr. Moriway . 
No not to morrow next week , sighed Mrs. Kingdon . 
In fact , mother's changed her mind , Mr. Moriway . 
Oh you wicked boy , you told a lie ! she gasped . 
You did read my letter . 
I laughed laughed out loud , it was such a bully thing to watch Moriway's face . 
But that was an unlucky laugh of mine it turned his wrath on me . 
He made a dive toward me . 
Oh , how I ran ! But if he hadn't slipped on the curb he'd have had me . 
As he fell , though , he let out a yell . 
Stop thief ! stop thief ! Thief ! Thief ! Thief ! May you never hear it , Mag , behind you when you've somebody else's diamonds in your pocket . 
It sounds it sounds the way the bay of the hounds must sound to the hare . 
It seems to fly along with the air at the same time to be behind you , at your side , even in front of you . 
And then all at once I heard a policeman's whistle . 
That whistle was like a signal I saw the gates of the Correction open before me . 
I saw your Nance , Tom , in a neat striped dress , and she was behind bars bars bars ! There were bars everywhere before me . 
I might have jumped from the frying pan ? Of course , I might . 
But it was all fire to me . 
To be caught at the end is at least no worse than to be caught at the beginning . 
Anyhow , it was my one chance , and I took it as unhesitatingly as a rat takes a leap into a trap to escape a terrier . 
Only only , it was my luck that the trap wasn't set ! The room was empty . 
I pushed open a glass door , and fell over an open trunk that stood beside it . 
It bruised my knee and tore my hand , but oh ! it was nuts to me . 
For it was a woman's trunk filled with women's things . 
A skirt ! A blessed skirt ! And not a striped one . 
I threw off the bell boy's jacket and I got into that dear dress so quick it made my head swim . 
I threw open the glass doors and walked out into the garden . 
Miss Omar I wonder if it would be Miss Omar ? You bet I didn't take time to see who it was talking before I answered . 
Of course I was Miss Omar . 
I was Miss Anybody that had a right to wear skirts and be inside those blessed gates . 
Ah h ! I fancied you might be . 
It was a lazy , low voice with a laugh in it , and it came from a wheeled chair , where a young man lay . 
Sallow he was and slim and long , and helpless you could see that by his white hanging hands . 
But his voice it was what a woman's voice would be if she were a man . 
It made you perk up and pretend to be somewhere near its level . 
It fitted his soft , black clothes and his fine , clean face . 
It meant silks and velvets and Oh , all right , Tommy Dorgan , if you're going to get jealous of a voice ! Excuse me , Mr. Latimer . 
The cop came in as he spoke , Moriway following the rest of the hounds hung about . 
There's a thieving bell boy from the hotel that's somewhere in your grounds . 
Can I come in and get him ? In here , Sergeant ? Aren't you mistaken ? No Mr. Moriway here saw him jump the gate not five minutes since . 
Strange , and I here all the time ! I may have dozed of , though . 
Look for the little rascal . 
What's he stolen ? Diamonds ! Tut ! tut ! Enterprising , isn't he ? . 
Miss Omar , won't you kindly reach the bell yonder no , on the table that's it and ring for some one to take the officer about ? I rang . 
Do you know what happened ? An electric light strung on the tree above the table shone out , and there I stood under it with Moriway's eyes full upon me . 
Just ring again Mr. Latimer's voice came soft as silk . 
My fingers trembled so , the bell clattered out of them and fell jangling to the ground . 
And the light above me went out like magic . 
I fell back into a garden chair . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. was Moriway the name ? I must have interrupted you , but my eyes are troubling me this evening , and I can't bear the light . 
Miss Omar , I thought the housekeeper had instructed you one ring means lights , two mean I want Burnett . 
Burnett , take Sergeant Mulhill through the place . 
He's looking for a thief . 
You will accompany the Sergeant , Mr. Moriway ? Thank you no . 
If you don't mind , I'll wait out here . 
I moved toward the gate . 
Miss Omar , sit down , won't you ? I sat down . 
Miss Omar reads to me , Mr. Moriway . 
I'm an invalid , as you see , dependent on the good offices of my man . 
I find a woman's voice a soothing change . 
Particularly if the voice is pleasing . 
Miss Omar I didn't quite catch the name He waited . 
But Miss Omar had nothing to say that minute . 
Yes , that's the name . 
You've got it all right , said Latimer . 
An uncommon name , isn't it ? I don't think I ever heard it before . 
Do you know , Miss Omar , as I heard your voice just before we got to the gate , it sounded singularly boyish to me . 
Mr. Latimer does not find it so do you ? I said as sweet as sweet as I could coax . 
How sweet's that , Tom Dorgan ? Not at all . 
A little laugh came from Latimer as though he was enjoying a joke all by himself . 
But Moriway jumped with satisfaction . 
He knew the voice all right . 
Have you a brother , may I ask ? He leaned over and looked keenly at me . 
I am an orphan , I said sadly , with no relatives . 
A pitiful position , sneered Moriway . 
You look so much like a boy I know that Do you really think so ? So awfully polite was Latimer to such a rat as Moriway . 
Why ? Well , wait . 
I can't agree with you . 
Do you know , I find Miss Omar very feminine . 
Of course , short hair Her hair is short , then ! Typhoid , I murmured . 
Too bad ! Moriway sneered . 
I thought it was at the time . 
I'd no business to gabble , and just because you and your new job , Mag , came to my mind at that minute , there I went putting my foot in it . 
I didn't like the sound of his laugh . 
Your reader is versatile , Mr. Latimer , he said . 
Latimer smoothed the soft silk rug that lay over him . 
Poverty and that sort of versatility are often bedfellows , eh ? . 
Tell me , Mr. Moriway , these lost diamonds are yours ? No. They belong to a a friend of mine , Mrs. Kingdon . 
Oh ! the old lady who was married this afternoon to a young fortune hunter ! I couldn't resist it . 
Moriway jumped out of his seat . 
She was not married , he stuttered . 
She Changed her mind ? How sensible of her ! Did she find out what a crook the fellow was ? What was his name Morrison ? No Middleway I have heard it . 
Mr. Latimer , he stormed , may I see you a moment alone ? Phew ! That meant me . 
But I got up just the same . 
Just keep your seat , Miss Omar . 
Oh , that silken voice of Latimer's ! Mr. Moriway , I have absolutely no acquaintance with you . 
I never saw you till to night . 
I can't imagine what you may have to say to me , that my secretary Miss Omar acts in that capacity may not hear . 
She knows of my of Mrs. Kingdon's marriage , that that boy Nat found out about . 
And you yourself also , as Miss Omar mentioned . 
Myself ? Damn it , I'm Moriway , the man she was going to marry . 
Why shouldn't I Ah h ! Latimer's shoulders shook with a gentle laugh . 
Well , Mr. Moriway , gentlemen don't swear in my garden . 
Particularly when ladies are present . 
Shall we say good evening ? Here comes Mulhill now . 
Nothing , Sergeant ? Too bad the rogue escaped , but you'll catch him . 
They may get away from you , but they never stay long , do they ? Good evening good evening , Mr. Moriway . 
They tramped on and out , Moriway's very back showing his rage . 
He whispered something to the Sergeant , who turned to look at me but shook his head , and the gate clanged after them . 
A long sigh escaped me . 
Warm , isn't it ? Latimer leaned forward . 
Now , would you mind ringing again , Miss Omar ? I bent and groped for the bell and rang it twice . 
How quick you are to learn ! he said . 
But I really wanted the light this time . 
Just light up , Burnett , he called to the man , who had come out on the porch . 
The electric bulb flashed out again just over my head . 
Latimer turned and looked at me . 
When I couldn't bear it any longer , I looked defiantly up at him . 
Pardon , he said , smiling nice teeth he has and clear eyes . 
I was just looking for that boyish resemblance Mr. Moriway spoke of . 
I hold to my first opinion you're very feminine , Miss Omar . 
Will you read to me now , if you please ? He pointed to a big open book on the table beside his couch . 
I think if you don't mind , Mr. Latimer , I'll begin the reading to morrow . 
I got up to go . 
I was through with that garden now . 
I sat down again and pulled the book farther toward the light . 
We didn't learn much poetry at the Cruelty , did we , Mag ? But I know some now , just the same . 
When I began to read I heard only one word Moriway Moriway Moriway . 
I looked up with a start . 
The shadow by the gate was gone . 
Thank you , that will do , he went on . 
That is enough , Miss He stopped . 
He did not say Omar . 
I looked him square in the eye and then I had enough . 
But what in the devil did you make believe for ? I asked . 
Just as you would admire the nerve of the young lady that came out of the house a few minutes after in your housekeeper's Sunday gown . 
Yes , grin , Torn Dorgan . 
I put down the book and got up to go . 
Good night , then , and thank you , Mr. Latimer . 
Oh , Miss He didn't say Omar there is a favor you might do me . 
Sure ! I wondered what it could be . 
I've got to have them , you know , to send them back to their owner . 
I don't mind helping a a person who helps himself to other people's things , but I can't let him get away with his plunder without being that kind of person myself . 
So Why didn't I lie ? Because there are some people you don't lie to , Tom Dorgan . 
Don't talk to me , you bully , I'm savage enough . 
Show her how to get diamonds honestly . 
Say , Tom , let's go in for bigger game . 
Oh , Mag , Mag , for heaven's sake , let me talk to you ! No , don't say anything . 
You must let me tell you . 
No don't call the other girls . 
I can't bear to tell this to anybody but you . 
You know how I kicked when Tom hit on Latimer's as the place we were to scuttle . 
And the harder I kicked the stubborner he got , till he swore he'd do the job without me if I wouldn't come along . 
Well this is the rest of it . 
The house , you know , stands at the end of the street . 
If you could walk through the garden with the iron fence you'd come right down the bluff on to the docks and out into East River . 
Tom and I came up to it from the docks last night . 
It was dark and wet , you remember . 
The mud was thick on my trousers Nance Olden's a boy every time when it comes to doing business . 
We'll blow it all in , Tom , I said , as we climbed . 
We'll spend a week at the Waldorf , and then , Tom Dorgan , we'll go to Paris . 
I'm so fidgety I must talk or I'll shriek . 
Well , you'll shut up just the same . 
Do you hear me ? I shut up , but my teeth chattered so that Tom stopped at the gate . 
Look here , Nance , are you going to flunk ? Say it now yes or no . 
Tom Dorgan , I said , I'll bet your own teeth chattered the first time you went in for a thing like this . 
You'll squeal before I do . 
With a good , strong swing he boosted me over , handed me the bag of tools and sprang over himself . 
He looked kind o' handsome and fine , my Tom , as he lit square and light on his feet beside me . 
And because he did , I put my arm in his and gave it a squeeze . 
Oh , Mag , it was so funny , going through Latimer's garden ! There was the garden table where I had sat reading and thinking he took me for Miss Omar . 
There was the bench where that beast Moriway sat sneering at me . 
The wheeled chair was gone . 
And it was so late everything looked asleep . 
You'll stay here , Nancy , and watch , Tom whispered . 
You'll whistle once if a cop comes inside the gate , but not before he's inside the gate . 
Don't whistle too soon mind that nor too loud . 
I'll hear ye all right . 
And I'll whistle just once if anything happens . 
Then you run hear me ? Run like the devil Tommy Well , what ? Nothing all right . 
I wanted to say good by but you know Tom . 
Mag , were you ever where you oughtn't to be at midnight alone ? No , I know you weren't . 
'Twas your ugly little face and your hair that saved you the red hair we used to guy so at the Cruelty . 
The old woman had just locked you in there , hadn't she , to starve when she lit out . 
Mothers are queer , ain't they , when they are queer . 
Yes , I'll go on . 
I stood it all right for a time , out there alone in the night . 
But I never was one to wait patiently . 
I can't wait it isn't in me . 
But there I had to stand and just God ! just wait . 
If I hadn't waited so hard at the very first I wouldn't 'a' given out so soon . 
But I stood so still and listened so terribly hard that the trees began to whisper and the bushes to crack and creep . 
I heard things in my head and ears that weren't sounding anywhere else . 
And all of a sudden tramp , tramp , tramp I heard the cop's footsteps . 
He stopped over there by the swinging electric light above the gate . 
I crouched down behind the iron bench . 
And my coat caught a twig on a bush and its crack ck was like a yell . 
But I didn't for there , asleep on a rug that some one had forgotten to take in , was the house cat . 
I gave her a quick slap , and she flew out and across the path like a flash . 
The cop watched her , his hand on the gate , and passed on . 
Mag Monahan , if Tom had come out that minute without a bean and gone home with me , I'd been so relieved I'd never have tried again . 
Nights and nights and nights went by , and the stillness began to sound again . 
My throat went choking mad . 
I began to shiver , and I reached for the rug the cat had lain on . 
Funny , how some things strike you ! This was Latimer's rug . 
I had noticed it that evening a warm , soft , mottled green that looked like silk and fur mixed . 
It's as if the river had spoken or a tree it's so it's so different . 
That saved me that verse that I remembered . 
I said it over and over and over again to myself . 
I fitted it to the ferry whistles on the bay to the cop's steps as they passed again to the roar of the L train and the jangling of the surface cars . 
And right in the middle of it every drop of blood in my body seemed to leak out of me , and then come rushing back to my head I heard Tom's whistle . 
Oh , it's easy to say run , and I really meant it when I promised Tom . 
But you see I hadn't heard that whistle then . 
When it came , it changed everything . 
It set the devil in me loose . 
I felt as if the world was tearing something of mine away from me . 
Stand for it ? Not Nance Olden . 
I did run but it was toward the house . 
That whistle may have meant Go ! To me it yelled Come ! I got in through the window Tom had left open . 
The place was still quiet . 
Nobody inside had heard that whistle so far as I could tell . 
I crept along the carpets were thick and soft and silky as the rug I'd had my hands buried in to keep 'em warm . 
Along a long hall and through a great room , whose walls were thick with books , I was making for a light I could see at the back of the house . 
That's where Tom Dorgan must be and where I must be to find out to know . 
Nance ! you devil ! You recognize it ? Yep , it was Tom . 
Big Tom Dorgan , at the foot of Latimer's bed , his hands above his head , and Latimer's gun aimed right at his heart . 
Think of the pluck of that cripple , will you ? His eyes turned on me for just a second , and then fixed themselves again on Tom . 
But his voice went straight at me , all right . 
You are something of a thankless devil , I must admit , Miss Omar , he said . 
You don't say things in answer to things like that . 
Ashamed ? What do I care for a man with a voice like that ! . 
But you should have heard how Tom's growl sounded after it . 
Why the hell didn't you light out ? I couldn't , Tom . 
I just couldn't , I sobbed . 
There seems invariably to be a misunderstanding of signals where Miss Omar is concerned . 
Also a disposition to use strong language in the lady's presence . 
Don't you , young man ! Don't you call me Miss Omar ! I blazed , stamping my foot . 
He laughed a contemptuous laugh . 
I could have killed him then , I hated him so . 
For the curtains were pushed aside , and Burnett , Latimer's servant , and the cop came in . 
Tom didn't fight he's no fool to waste himself . 
But I well , never mind about me . 
I caught a glimpse of a crazy white face on a boy's body in the great glass opposite and heard my own voice break into something I'd never heard before . 
Tom stood at last with the handcuffs on . 
It's your own fault , you damned little chump ! he said to me , as they went out . 
He'd told the cop that I'd peached peached on Tom ! So they went off without me . 
Why ? That's what he said himself when we were alone . 
In order to insure for myself another of your most interesting visits , I suppose , Miss not Omar ? All right . 
Tell me , can I do nothing for you ? Aren't you sick of this sort of life ? Get Tom out of jail . 
I'm too good a friend of yours to do you such a turn . 
I don't want any friend that isn't Tom's . 
He threw the pistol from him and pulled himself up , till he sat looking at me . 
In heaven's name , what can you see in a fellow like that ? What's that to you ? I turned to go . 
To me ? Things of that sort are nothing , of course , to me me , that luckless Pot He marr'd in making . 
I could watch every expression on both your faces . 
What ? That line we read the other night about the luckless Pot' . 
His face went gray and he fell back on his pillows . 
The strenuous life we'd been leading him , Tom and I , was too much for him , I guess . 
Do you know , I really felt sorry I'd said it . 
But he is a cripple . 
Did he expect me to say he was big and strong and dashing like Tom ? I left him there and got out and away . 
No no no ! No more whining from Nance Olden . 
I was glum as mud . 
And then he sets his price a notch higher than that . 
The funny part of it is that I didn't want it for myself , but for Tom . 
Or it takes something altogether different . 
It was the different way she did it . 
She took it up in a quick , eager way , as though she'd found just what she wanted . 
I beg pardon , madam . 
My best style , Mag . 
She pulled herself up haughtily and blinked at me . 
She stood blinking at me without a word . 
You haven't paid for it , I said . 
Her short sighted eyes fell from my face to the collar she held in her hand . 
Her yellow face grew ghastly . 
Glory be ! Guess , Mag . 
Oh , you'd never guess , you dear old Mag ! Besides , you haven't got the acquaintance in high society that Nance Olden can boast . 
And this was his wife . 
Tut tut , Mag ! Of course not . 
A bishop's wife may be a kleptomaniac it's only Cruelty girls that really steal from stores . 
I've met the Bishop , Mrs. Van Wagenen . 
I didn't say how she wouldn't appreciate that story . 
And he was once very kind to me . 
But he would be the first to tell me to do my duty now . 
I'll do it as quietly as I can for his sake . 
But you must come with me or I must arrest She put up a shaking hand . 
Dear little old guy ! Don't don't say it ! It's all a mistake , which can be rectified in a moment . 
I've been trying to match this piece of lace for years . 
I got it at Malta when when Mills and I on our honeymoon . 
She was straight right on the level , all right . 
You couldn't listen to that cracked little voice of hers a minute without being sure of it . 
If you'll come with me , Mrs. Van Wagenen , to a dressing room , I'll arrange your collar for you , I said very loud . 
And then , in a whisper Of course , I understand , but the thing may look different to other people . 
The minute I closed the door of the little fitting room she held out the lace to me . 
I have changed my mind , she said , and shall give you the lace back . 
I will not keep it . 
I can not I can not bear the sight of it . 
It terrifies me and shocks me . 
I can take no pleasure in it . 
Besides besides , it will be discipline for me to do without it now that I have found it after all these years . 
Every day I shall look at the place in my collection which it would have occupied , and I shall say to myself Maria Van Wagenen , take warning . 
What good will that do ? I asked , puzzled , while I folded the collar up into a very small package . 
You mean that I ought to submit to the exposure that I deserve the lesson and the punishment not for stealing , but for being absorbed in worldly things . 
It certainly shows that you have at some time been under Mills' spiritual care , my dear . 
I wonder if he would insist whether I ought yes , I suppose he would . 
Oh ! A saleswoman's head was thrust in the door . 
Excuse me , she said , I thought the room was empty . 
We've just finished trying on , I said sweetly . 
Don't go ! The Bishop's wife turned to her , her little fluttering hands held out appealingly . 
And do not misunderstand me . 
I am making this confession The tender conscience of the dear , blameless little soul ! She was actually giving herself away . 
Worse she was giving me away , too . 
But I couldn't stand that . 
I got behind little Mrs. Bishop , and looking out over her head , I tapped my forehead significantly . 
But so did the Bishop's wife for she turned and caught me at it . 
You shall not save me from myself and what I deserve , she cried . 
I am perfectly sane and you know it , and you are doing me no favor in trying to create the contrary impression . 
I demand an An interview with the manager , I interrupted . 
I'm sure Mrs. Van Wagenen can see the manager . 
Just go with the lady , Mrs. Van Wagenen , and I'll follow with the goods . 
She did it meek as a lamb , talking all the time , but never beginning at the beginning luckily for me . 
So that I had time to slip from one dressing room to the next , with the lace up my sleeve , out to the elevator , and down into the street . 
D'ye know what heaven must be , Mag ? A place where you always get away with the swag , and where it's always just the minute after you've made a killing . 
Cocky ? Well , I should say I was . 
I was drunk enough with success to take big chances . 
But you've got to look fifty one if you want to catch Nance Olden . 
I ran up the stairs of the first flat house and rang the bell . 
And as I sailed up in the elevator I saw the big floor walker hurry past he'd lost the scent . 
The boy let me off at the top floor , and after the elevator had gone down I walked up to the roof . 
It was fine 'way up there , so still and high , with the lights coming out down in the town . 
It would do for a mirror all right , for the dark green shade was down . 
But at sight of the shade blowing in the wind I forgot all about the collar . 
It's this way , Mag , when they press you too far and that little rat of a lawyer had got me most to the wall . 
And I made up my mind to get what would let Tom off easy , or break into jail myself . 
And so I didn't care much what I might fall into through that window . 
And perhaps because I didn't care , I slipped into a dark hall , and not a thing stirred not a footstep creaked . 
Can you see me there , standing on one leg like a stork , ready to lie or to fly at the first sound ? Well , the first sound didn't come . 
In fact , none of 'em came unless I made 'em myself . 
Softly as Molly goes when the baby's just dropped off to sleep , I walked toward an open door . 
It was a parlor , smelly with tobacco , and with lots of papers and books around . 
And nary a he beauty nor any other kind . 
I tried the door of a room next to it . 
Silly ! Don't you tumble yet ? It was a bachelor's apartment , and the Bachelor Beauty was out , and Princess Nancy had the place all to herself . 
I suppose I really ought to have left my card or he wouldn't know who had waked him but I hadn't intended to go calling when I left home . 
So I thought I'd look for one of his as a souvenir and anything else of his I could make use of . 
There were shirts I'd liked for Tom , dandy colored ones , and suits with checks in 'em and without . 
But I wanted something easy and small and flat , made of crackly printed yellow or green paper , with numbers on it . 
And I don't like light in other people's houses when they're not at home , and neither am I. But there was nothing in the bedroom except some pearl studs . 
I got those and then went back to the parlor . 
The desk caught my eye . 
Oh , Mag , it had the loveliest pictures on it pictures of swell actresses and dancers . 
It was mahogany , with lots of little drawers and two curvy side boxes . 
I pulled open all the drawers . 
They were full of papers all right , but they were printed , cut from newspapers , and all about theaters . 
You can't feed things like this , Nance , to that shark of a lawyer , I said to myself , pushing the box on the side impatiently . 
And then I giggled outright . 
! Three hundred and ten dollars , Mag Monahan . 
Three hundred and ten , and Nance Olden ! Glory be ! I whispered . 
Glory be damned ! I heard behind me . 
The bills just leaked out of my hand on to the floor . 
The Bachelor Beauty had come home , Mag , and nabbed the poor Princess , instead of her catching him napping . 
He wasn't a beauty either a big , stout fellow with a black mustache . 
His hand on my shoulder held me tight , but the look in his eyes behind his glasses held me tighter . 
I threw out my arms over the desk and hid my face . 
Then he unhooked a telephone and lifted the stand from his desk . 
Hello ! Chief's office ? This is Obermuller , Standard Theater . 
I want an officer to take charge of a thief I've caught in my apartments here at the Bronsonia . 
Yes , right on the corner . 
Hold him till you come ? Well rather ! He put down the 'phone . 
I pulled the pearl studs out of my pocket . 
You might as well take these , too , I said . 
So thoughtful of you , seeing that you'd be searched ! But I'll take 'em , anyway . 
You intended them for Him ? You didn't get anything else ? I shook my head as I lay there . 
Hum ! It was half a laugh , and half a sneer . 
I hated him for it , as he sat leaning back on the back legs of his chair , his thumbs in his arm holes . 
I felt his eyes those smart , keen eyes , burning into my miserable head . 
I thought of the lawyer and the deal he'd give poor Tom , and all at once You'd have sniffled yourself , Mag Monahan . 
The cop'd be after me in five minutes . 
With Tom jugged , and me in stripes it wasn't very jolly , and I lost my nerve . 
Ashamed huh ? he said lightly . 
Pity you didn't get ashamed before you broke in here . 
What the devil was there to be ashamed of ? The sting in his voice had cured me . 
I never was a weeper . 
I sat up , my face blazing , and stared at him . 
He'd got me to hand over to the cop , but he hadn't got me to sneer at . 
I saw by the look he gave me , that he hadn't really seen me till then . 
Well , he answered , what the devil is there to be ashamed of now ? Of being caught that's what . 
Oh ! He tilted back again on his chair and laughed softly . 
Then you're not ashamed of your profession ? Are you of yours ? Well there's a slight difference . 
Not much , whatever it may be . 
It's your graft it's everybody's to take all he can get , and keep out of jail . 
But you see I keep out of jail . 
I see you're not there yet . 
Oh , I think you needn't worry about that . 
I'll keep out , thank you imprisonment for debt don't go nowadays . 
Debt ? I'm a theatrical manager , my girl , and I'm not on the inside which is another way of saying that a man who can't swim has fallen overboard . 
And when you do go down A little less exultation , my dear , or I might suppose you'd be glad when I do . 
He shook his head , and bit the end of a cigar with sharp , white teeth . 
And I don't admire fools . 
Oh , how I hated him ! Honesty isn't the best policy , he went on it's the only one . 
For five thousand years , more or less , the world has been putting people like him behind bars , where they can't make asses of themselves . 
Yet each year , and every day and every hour , a new ninny is born who fancies he's cleverer than all his predecessors put together . 
Talk about suckers ! Why , they're giants of intellect compared to the mentally lop sided that five thousand years of experience can't teach . 
When the criminal clown's turn comes , he hops , skips and jumps into the ring with the old , old gag . 
He thinks it's new , because he himself is so fresh and green . 
Here I am again , he yells , the fellow that'll do you up . 
They're dead in jail or under jail yards . 
Bah ! He puffed out the smoke , throwing his head back , in a cloud toward the ceiling . 
I sprang from my seat and faced him . 
I was tingling all through . 
I didn't care a rap what became of me for just that minute . 
I prayed that the cop wouldn't come for a minute yet but only that I might answer him . 
He let down the front legs of his chair and began to stare at me . 
And you don't know it all , Mr. Manager , not you . 
Your clown criminal don't jump into the ring because he's so full of fun he can't stay out . 
And it's because your kind gets too much , that my kind gets so little it has to piece it out with this sort of thing . 
No , you don't know it quite all . 
There's a girl named Nancy Olden that could tell you a lot , smart as you are . 
She thought that all little girls were bloodless and dirty , and all little boys were filthy and had black purple marks where their fathers had tried to gouge out their eyes . 
Tell her how happy you are here . 
Then Mag's freckled little face , her finger in her mouth , looked up like this . 
She was always afraid it might be her mother come for her . 
And the crippled boy jerked himself this way I used to mimic him , and he'd laugh with the rest of them over the bare floor . 
He always hoped for a penny . 
Sometimes he even got it . 
And the boy with the gouged eye he would hold his pants up like this . 
He had just come in , and there was nothing to fit him . 
And he'd put his other hand over his bad eye and blink up at her like this . 
And the littlest boy oh , ha ! ha ! ha ! you ought have seen that littlest boy . 
He was in skirts , an old dress they'd given me to wear the first day I came there were no pants small enough for him . 
He'd back up into the corner and hide his face like this and peep over his shoulder he had a squint that way , that made his face so funny . 
See , it makes you laugh yourself . 
I knew just what graft would work her . 
I knew what she wanted there . 
I was back back in the empty garret , at the top of the Cruelty . 
I could smell the smell of the poor , the dirty , weak , sick poor . 
I could taste the porridge in the thick little bowls , like those in the bear story Molly tells her kid . 
I could hear the stifled sobs that wise , poor children give quiet ones , so they'll not be beaten again . 
But there's one thing I do know ! He's a big fellow but quick on his feet , and in a minute he was up and between me and the cop . 
And there isn't a theatrical man in all America that knows it quicker than Fred Obermuller , that can detect it sooner and develop it better . 
And you've got it , girl , you've got it ! . 
Officer , take this for your trouble . 
I couldn't hold the fellow , after all . 
Never mind which way he went I'll call up the office and explain . 
He shut the door after the cop , and came back to me . 
I had fallen into a chair . 
My knees were weak , and I was trembling all over . 
Have you seen the playlet Charity at the Vaudeville ? he roared at me . 
Well , it's a scene in a foundling asylum . 
Go up now and see it . 
If you hurry you'll get there just in time for that act . 
Then if you come to me at the office in the morning at ten , I'll give you a chance as one of the Charity girls . 
I go round there just doped with it my face , if you could see it , must look like Molly's kid's when she is telling him fairy stories . 
I love it , Mag ! I love it ! And what do I do ? That's what I was trying to tell you about the Cruelty for . 
It's in a little act that was made for Lady Gray , that there are four Charity girls on the stage , and I'm one of 'em . 
She comes on , though , looking like a fairy princess . 
Her dress is just blazing with diamonds . 
There's the Lady's coronet in her hair . 
You see it's this way Lord Harold Gray's bankrupt . 
He's poor as as Nance Olden . 
Isn't that funny ? But he's got the family jewels all right , to have as long as he lives . 
Nary a one can he sell , though , for after his death , they go to the next Lord Gray . 
So he makes 'em make a living for him , and as they can't go on and exhibit themselves , Lady Gray sports 'em and draws down two hundred dollars a week . 
But do you know it isn't the two hundred dollars a week that makes me envy her till I'm sick it's that rose diamond . 
If you could only see it , Mag , you'd sympathize with me , and understand why my fingers just itched for it the first night I saw her come on . 
What's doped you , Olden ? Obermuller asked when the curtain went down , and we all hurried to the wings . 
I was in the black dress with the white bibbed apron , and I looked up at him still dazed by the shine of that diamond and my longing for it . 
You'd almost kill with your own hands for a diamond like that , Mag ! Doped ? Why what didn't I do ? I asked him . 
That's just it , he said , looking at me curiously but I could feel his disappointment in me . 
You didn't do anything not a blasted thing more than you were told to do . 
The world's full of supers that can do that . 
For just a minute I forgot the diamond . 
The gesture itself seemed to remind him of what had made him think in the first place he could make an actress of me . 
For he laughed down at me , and I saw he remembered . 
Well , he said , we'll wait and see . 
I was mistaken , though , sure enough , about one thing that night . 
I looked up at him . 
You're a darn sight prettier than I thought you were . 
The gold brick you sold me isn't all He put out his hand to touch my chin . 
I side stepped , and he turned laughing to the stage . 
But he called after me . 
Is a beauty success going to content you , Olden ? Well , we'll wait and see , I drawled back at him in his own throaty bass . 
Oh , I was drunk , Mag , drunk with thinking about that diamond ! I didn't care even to please Obermuller . 
I just wanted the feel of that diamond in my hand . 
I wanted it lying on my own neck the lovely , cool , shining , rosy thing . 
It's like the sunrise , Mag , that beauty stone . 
It's just a tiny pool of water blushing . 
But I hadn't got it yet . 
Gray has a dressing room to herself . 
Other times it's locked tight , and his Lordship himself has it tight in his own right hand , or his Lordship's man , Topham , has it just as tight . 
How to get that diamond ! There was a hard nut for Nance Olden's sharp teeth to crack . 
But that diamond , that huge rose diamond , I couldn't , I just couldn't let her have it . 
And yet I didn't know the first step to take toward getting it , till Beryl Blackburn helped me out . 
She's one of the Charities , like me a tall bleached blonde with a pretty , pale face and gold gray eyes . 
And , if you'd believe her , there's not a man in the audience , afternoon or evening , that isn't dead gone on her . 
Guess who's my latest , she said to me this afternoon , while we four Charities stood in the wings waiting . 
Topham old Topham ! It all got clear to me then in a minute . 
Topham nothing ! I sneered . 
Beryl Big head , Topham thinks of only one thing Milady's jewel box . 
Oh , does he , Miss ! Well , just to prove it , he let me try on the rose diamond last night . 
There ! It's easy to say so but I don't see the proof . 
He'd lose his job so quick it'd make his head spin if he did it . 
Not if he did , but if they knew he did . 
You'll not tell ? Not me . 
Why would I ? I don't believe it , and I wouldn't expect anybody else to . 
I don't believe you could get Topham to budge from his chair in Gray's dressing room if you'd What'll you bet ? I'll bet you the biggest box of chocolate creams at Huyler's . 
Catch on , Mag ? At seven thirty in the evening I was waiting but not in the little hall of Gray's dressing room . 
I hadn't gone home at all after the afternoon performance you know we play at three , and again at eight thirty . 
Lord , how the hours dragged ! I hadn't had anything to eat since lunch , and it got darker and darker in there , and hot and close and cramped . 
I put in the time , much as I could , thinking of Tom . 
The very first thing I'd do after cashing in , would be to get up to Sing Sing to see him . 
I'm crazy to see him . 
I'd tell him the news and see if he couldn't bribe a guard , or plan some scheme with me to get out soon . 
Afraid me ? What of ? If they found me under that box I'd just give 'em the Beryl story about the bet . 
How do you know they wouldn't believe it ? . 
Oh , I don't care , you've got to take chances , Mag Monahan , if you go in for big things . 
And this was big huge . 
Do you know how much that diamond's worth ? And do you know how to spend fifty thousand ? I spent it all there in the box every penny of it . 
When I got tired spending money I dozed a bit and , in my dream , spent it over again . 
He set the big box down with a bang that nearly cracked my head . 
He turned on the lights , and stood whistling Tommy Atkins . 
And then suddenly there came a soft call , Topham ! Topham ! I leaned back and bit my fingers till I knew I wouldn't shriek . 
The Englishman listened a minute . 
Then the call came again , and Topham creaked to the door and out . 
In a twinkling I was out , too , you bet . 
Mag ! He hadn't opened the box at all ! There it stood in the middle of the space framed by the three glasses . 
I pulled at the lid . 
Locked ! I could have screamed with rage . 
But the sound of his step outside the door sobered me . 
In a frantic hurry I turned toward the window which I had unlocked when I came in four hours ago . 
But I hadn't time to make it . 
I heard the old fellow's hand on the door , and I tumbled back into the box in such a rush that the curtains were still waving when he came in . 
Slowly he began to place the jewels , one by one , in the order her Ladyship puts them on . 
We Charity girls had often watched him from the door he never let one of us put a foot inside . 
He was method and order itself . 
He never changed the order in which he lifted the glittering things out , nor the places he put them back in . 
I put my hand up against the top of the box , tracing the spot where each piece would be lying . 
But at least it would be better to appear of my own will before the old Englishman than be discovered by Lord Gray and his Lady . 
Oh , I loved every syllable that call boy spoke ! There was a giggle behind his voice , too old Topham was the butt of every joke . 
The first call , which had fooled me , must have been from some giddy girl who wanted to guy the old fellow . 
She had fooled me all right . 
But this this one was the real article . 
There was a pause Topham must be looking about to be sure things were safe . 
Then he creaked to the door and shut it carefully behind him . 
Oh , the feel of that beautiful thing in my hand ! I'd 'a' loved it if it hadn't been worth a penny , but as it was I adored it . 
I slipped the chain under my collar , and the diamond slid down my neck , and I felt its kiss on my skin . 
I flew down the black corridor , bumping into scenery and nearly tripping two stage carpenters . 
I heard Ginger , the call boy , ahead of me and dodged behind some properties just in time . 
He went whistling past and I got to the stage door . 
I pulled it open tenderly , cautiously , and turned to shut it after me . 
And And something held it open in spite of me . 
No no , Mag , it wasn't a man . 
I couldn't make him know what I felt any more than I'd dare tell him what I did . 
I shut it on the street and Mag , I shut for ever another door , too the old door that opens out on Crooked Street . 
With my hand on my heart , that was beating as though it would burst , I flew back again through the black corridor , through the wings and out to Obermuller's office . 
For God's sake ! I yelled . 
Don't make it so easy for me to steal ! I don't know what happened for a minute . 
I could see his face change half a dozen ways in as many seconds . 
He took it up in his fingers at last . 
It swung there at the end of the slender little broken chain like a great drop of shining water , blushing and sparkling and trembling . 
His hands trembled , too , and he looked up at last from the diamond to my face . 
It's worth at least fifty thousand , you know valued at that . 
He got up and came over to where I had thrown myself on a bench . 
What's the matter , Olden ? Don't I pay you enough ? I want to see Tom , I begged . 
It's so long since he He's up at at in the country . 
Sing Sing ? I nodded . 
You poor little devil ! That finished me . 
I'm not used to being pitied . 
I sobbed and sobbed as though some dam had broken inside of me . 
And the contrast well , it was too much for me . 
But something came quick to sober me . 
She stormed in , followed by Lord Harold and Topham , and half the company . 
The diamond , the rose diamond ! she shrieked . 
It's gone ! And the carpenters say that new girl Olden came flying from the direction of my dressing room . 
I'll hold you responsible Hush sh ! Obermuller lifted his hands and nodded over toward me . 
I'll bet she stole that diamond , and she can't have got rid of it yet . 
Topham jumped toward me , but Obermuller stopped him . 
You'd win only half your bet , my Lady , Obermuller said softly . 
She did get hold of the Gray rose , worth fifty thousand dollars , in spite of all your precautions The world seemed to fall away from me . 
I looked up at him . 
I couldn't believe he'd go back on me . 
And she brought it straight to me , as I had asked her to , and promised to raise her salary if she'd win out . 
Here ! Scoot out o' this . 
It's nearly time for your number . 
He passed the diamond over to her , and they all left the office . 
So did I but he held out his hand as I passed . 
It goes that about a raise for you , Olden . 
Isn't he white , Mag white clean through , that big fellow Obermuller ? VI . 
I got into the train , Mag , the happiest girl in all the country . 
I'd a big basket of things for Tom . 
I had so much to tell him . 
I knew just how I'd take off every member of the company to amuse him . 
I had memorized every joke I'd heard since I'd got behind the curtain not very hard for me things always had a way of sticking in my mind . 
I knew the newest songs in town , and the choruses of all the old ones . 
I could show him the latest tricks with cards I'd got those at first hand from Professor Haughwout . 
You know how great Tom is on tricks . 
I could explain the disappearing woman mystery , and the mirror cabinet . 
I knew the clog dance that Dewitt and Daniels do . 
I had pictures of the trained seals , the great elephant act , Mademoiselle Picotte doing her great tight rope dance , and the Brothers Borodini in their pyramid tumbling . 
Yes , it was a whole vaudeville show , with refreshments between the acts , that I was taking up to Tom Dorgan . 
I thought for a minute it was at the idea of my Tom with one of those bare , round convict heads on him , that look like fat skeleton faces . 
It was Guess , Mag . 
Both of us thought the same thing of each other for the first second that our eyes met . 
He thought I was caught at last . 
And I thought he'd been sharp once too often . 
And , Mag , it would be hard to say which of us would have been happier if it had been the truth . 
Oh , to meet Moriway , bound sure enough for Sing Sing ! He got up and came over to me , smiling wickedly . 
I was ready for him . 
I turned and looked at him in that very polite , distant sort o' way Gray uses in her act when the Charity superintendent speaks to her . 
It's the only decent thing she does chances are that that's how Lord Gray's mother looks at her . 
You know my sister , Mr. Mr. I asked humbly . 
He looked at me , perplexed for just a second . 
Sister be hanged ! he said at last . 
I know you , Nat , and I'm glad to my finger tips that you've got it in the neck , in spite of all your smartness . 
You're altogether wrong , sir , I said very stately , but hurt a bit , you know . 
I've often been taken for my sister , but gentlemen usually apologize when I explain to them . 
It's hard enough to have a sister who I looked up at him tearfully , with my chin a wabble with sorrow . 
Liars should have good memories , he sneered . 
Miss Omar said she was an orphan , you remember , and had not a relative in the world . 
Did she say that ? Did Nora say that ? I exclaimed piteously . 
Oh , what a little liar she is ! I suppose she thought it made her more interesting to be so alone , more appealing to kind hearted gentlemen like yourself . 
I hope she wasn't ungrateful to you , too , as she was to that kind Mr. Latimer , before he found her out . 
But his very silence sort of told me he almost believed , or that he was laying a trap . 
Will you tell me , he said , how you your sister got Latimer to lie for her ? Mr. Latimer lie ! Oh , you don't know him . 
He expected a lady to read to him that very evening . 
He had never seen her , and when Nora walked into the garden After getting a skirt somewhere . 
Yes the housekeeper's , it happened to be her evening out why , he just naturally supposed Nora was Miss Omar . 
Ah ! then her name isn't Omar . 
What might it be ? I'd rather not tell if you don't mind . 
But when Latimer found out she had the diamonds he did find out ? She confessed to him . 
Nora's not really so bad a girl as Very interesting ! But it doesn't happen to be Latimer's version . 
And you say Latimer wouldn't lie . 
I got pale but the paleness was on the inside of me . 
Think I was going to flinch before a chump like Moriway , even if I had walked straight into his trap ? It isn't ? I exclaimed . 
No. Latimer's note to Mrs. Kingdon said the diamonds were found in the bell boy's jacket the thief had left behind him . 
Well ! It only shows what a bad habit lying is . 
Nora must have fibbed to me , for the pure pleasure of fibbing . 
I'll never dare to trust her again . 
Do you believe then that she didn't have anything to do with the hotel robbery ? I do hope so . 
It's one less sin on her wicked head . 
It's hard , having such a girl in the family ! Oh , wasn't I grieved ! He looked me straight in the eye . 
I was unutterably sad about that tough sister of mine , and I vow I looked holy then , though I never did before and may never again . 
Well , I only saw her in the twilight , he said slowly , watching my face all the time . 
You two sisters are certainly miraculously alike . 
The train was slowing down , and I got up with my basket . 
I stood right before him , my full face turned toward him . 
Are we ? I asked simply . 
Don't you think it's more the expression than anything else , and the voice ? Nora's really much fairer than I am . 
He watched me as I went out . 
I felt his eyes on the back of my jacket , and I was tempted to turn at the door and make a face at him . 
But I knew something better and safer than that . 
I waited till the train was just pulling out , and then , standing below his window , I motioned to him to raise it . 
I thought you were going to get out here , I called . 
He had actually been fooled another time . 
It was worth the trip up there , to make a guy of him once more . 
And whether it was or not , Mag , it was all I got , after all . 
They wouldn't even let me leave the things for him , or give him a message from me . 
And back to the station I had to carry the basket , and all the schemes I had to make old Tom Dorgan grin . 
All the way back I had him in my mind . 
He's a tiger Tom when he's roused . 
Wherever I turned my eyes , that terrible picture was before me . 
And always it was just on the verge of becoming something else something worse . 
He could throttle the world with his bare hands , if it had but one neck , in the mood he must be in now . 
It was when I couldn't bear it a moment longer that I set my mind to find something else to think of . 
I found it , Mag . 
Do you know what it was ? It was just three words of Obermuller's Earn it now . 
After all , Miss Monahan , this graft of honesty they all preach so much about hasn't anything mysterious in it . 
All it is , is putting your wits to work according to the rules of the game and not against them . 
And first thing you know , 'pon honor , Mag , it was as much fun planning how to earn it now as any lifting I ever schemed . 
It's getting the best of people that always charmed me and here was a way to fool 'em according to law . 
So busy I was making it all up , that the train pulled into the station before I knew it . 
I gave a last thought to that poor old hyena of a Tom , and then put him out of my mind . 
I had other fish to fry . 
Straight down to Mother Douty I went with my basket . 
A fool girl , mother , on her way up to Sing Sing , lost her basket , and Nance Olden found it it ought to be worth a good deal . 
You couldn't make old Douty believe that the Lord himself wouldn't steal if He got a chance . 
And she knows the chances that come butting up against Nancy Olden . 
Why did I lie to her ? Not for practice , I assure you . 
She'd have beaten me down to the last cent if she thought it was mine , but she always thinks there'll be a find for her in something that's stolen . 
So I let her think I'd stolen it in the railway station , and we came to terms . 
With what she gave me I bought a wig . 
Mag , I want you some day , when you can get off , to come and see that wig . 
I shouldn't wonder but you'd recognize it . 
It's red , of very coarse hair , but a wonderful color , and so long it yes , it might be your own , Mag Monahan , it's so much like it . 
I went to the theater and got my Charity rig , took it home , and sat for hours there just looking at 'em both . 
When evening came I was ready to earn it now . 
You see , Obermuller had given me the whole day to be away , and neither Gray nor the other three Charities expected me back . 
I came to the theater in my Charity rig and the wig . 
It looked as if I'd slept in it , and it came down to the draggled hem of the skirt . 
All the way there I walked like you , Mag . 
Once , when a newsboy grinned at me and shouted Carrots ! I grinned back your own , old Cruelty grin , Mag . 
If I squirmed , they howled . 
If I stood on one foot , scratching the torn leg of my stocking with the other you know , Mag ! they yelled . 
If I grinned , they just roared . 
Oh , Mag , can't you see ? Don't you understand ? I was It . 
The center of the stage I carried round with me it was just Nancy Olden . 
And for ten minutes Nancy had nothing to do but to play with 'em . 
When the curtain fell it was different . 
Grays followed by the Charities , all clean and spick and span and not in it not even on the edge of it stormed up to Obermuller standing at the wings . 
I'll quit the show here and now , she squawked . 
It's a shame , a beastly shame . 
Why , I lost my cue . 
There was a gap for a full minute . 
The whole act was such a ghastly failure that I That you'd better go out now and make your prettiest bow , Gray . 
Phew ! Listen to the house roar . 
That's what I call applause . 
Me ? I didn't say a word . 
I looked at Obermuller and and I just did like this . 
Yes , winked , Mag Monahan . 
Um ! I just listened and loved it every thump of it . 
And I stood there like a demure little kitten or more like Mag Monahan after she'd had a good licking , and was good and quiet . 
And I never so much as budged till Obermuller said Well , Nance , you have earned it . 
The gall of you ! But it only proves that Fred Obermuller never yet bought a gold brick . 
Only , let me in on your racket next time . 
There , go on take it . 
Oh , to have Fred Obermuller say things like that to you ! He gave me a bit of a push . 
'Twas just a love pat . 
I stumbled out on to the stage . 
And that's why , Marguerite de Monahan , I want you to buy in with the madam here . 
Let 'em keep on calling it Troyon's as much as they want , but you're to be a partner on the money I'll give you . 
If this fairy story lasts , it'll be your own , Mag a sort of commission you get on my take off of you . 
Does it look that way ? Divil a bit , you croaker ! It looks it looks listen and I'll tell you how it looks . 
It looks as though Gray and the great Gray rose diamond and the three Charities had all become a bit of background for Nance Olden to play upon . 
It looks as though the audience likes the sound of my voice as much almost as I do myself anyway , as much as it does the sight of me . 
Fancy , he didn't know what the Cruelty was ! S. P. C. C. , he calls it . 
And all the time we talked a long haired German artist he had brought with him was sketching Nance Olden in different poses . 
Isn't that the limit ? What d'ye think Tom Dorgan'd say to see half a page of Nancy Olden in the X Ray ? Wouldn't his eyes pop ? Poor old Tom ! . 
No danger they won't let him have the papers . 
My old Tommy ! What is it , Mag ? Oh , what was I saying ? Yes yes , how it looks . 
What for ? I asked him on the way . 
You'll find out in a minute . 
I pulled up my stocking and followed . 
You know I wear it in that act without a garter , and it's always coming down the way yours used to , Mag . 
Even when it doesn't come down I pull it up , I'm so in the habit of doing it . 
A little bit of a man , bald headed , with a dyspeptic little black mustache turned down at the corners , watched me come in . 
He grinned at my make up , and then at me . 
Clever little girl , he says through his nose . 
How much do you stick Obermuller for ? Clever little man , say I , bold as brass and through my own nose none of your business . 
Hi you , Olden ! roared Obermuller , as though I'd run away and he was trying to get the bit from between my teeth . 
He has no conscience , no bowels , no heart . 
But he has got tin and nerve and power to beat the band . 
In short , and for all practical purposes for one in your profession , Nancy Olden , he's just God . 
You always were a fool , Obermuller , he said cordially . 
And you were always over fond of your low comedian jokes . 
After that they just touch buttons the Trust does the rest . 
Bad ones the kickers the Fred Obermullers go to a place where salaries cease from troubling and royalties are at rest . 
It's a slow place where where , in short , there's nothing doing . 
And only one thing's done the kicker . 
It's that place Mr. Tausig thinks I'm bound for . 
And it's that place he's come to rescue you from , from sheer goodness of heart and a wary eye for all there's in it . 
You must not give the young woman the big head , Obermuller . 
Her own is big enough , I'll bet , as it is . 
I ain't prepared to make any startling offer to a little girl that's just barely got her nose above the wall . 
The slightest shake might knock her off altogether , or she mightn't have strength enough in herself to hold on . 
But we'll give her a chance . 
His own lips and his own eyes sneered now , and he winked openly at me , which made the little man hot . 
Blast it ! he twanged . 
If you've got any notion through my coming down to your dirty little joint that we've set our hearts on having the girl , just get busy thinking something else . 
It ain't our policy to leave any doubtful cards in the enemy's hands . 
He can have the bad ones . 
He couldn't get the good ones . 
This girl Olden' is anything but doubtful . 
She's a big card right now if she could be well handled . 
And the time isn't so far off when , if you get her , you people will be Just how much is your interest in her worth ? the little man sneered . 
Obermuller glared at him , and in the pause I murmured demurely Only a six year contract . 
Mag , you should have seen 'em jump both of 'em the little man with vexation , the big one with surprise . 
A contract ! Me ? Nance Olden ! Why , Mag , you innocent , of course I hadn't . 
Managers don't give six year contracts to girl burglars who've never set foot on the stage . 
When the little man was gone , Obermuller cornered me . 
What's your game , Olden ? he cried . 
You're too deep for me I throw up my hands . 
It'll have to be twice 'steen , now , I suppose ? All right , just as you say , I laughed . 
But why aren't you in the Trust , Fred Obermuller ? Why aren't you in society , Nance ? Um ! well , because society's prejudiced against lifting , but the Trust isn't . 
You'd be in with the push , would you , Olden , if you were managing ? he asked with a grin . 
I'd be at the top , wherever that was . 
I moost have about me those who arre who arre congeniale You monkey ! he laughed . 
Then , when Tausig comes to buy your contract We'll tell him to go to thunder . 
Say , Mag , that big fellow is like a boy when he's pleased . 
I guess that's what makes it such fun to please him . 
And I , who admired your business sagacity in holding off , Nance ! he said . 
I thought you admired my take off ! of Mademoiselle Picotte . 
Well ? Well , why don't you make use of it ? Take me round to the theaters and let me mimic all the swell actors and actresses . 
I've got more chance with you than with that Trust gang . 
They wouldn't give me room to do my own stunt they'd make me fit into theirs . 
But you But me ! You think you can wind me round your finger ? Not yet . 
I thought I had him going . 
I saw Nance Olden spending her evenings at the big Broadway theaters , when , just at that minute , Ginger , the call boy , burst in with a note . 
Say , Mag , I wouldn't like to get that man Obermuller hopping mad at me , and Nancy Olden's no coward , either . 
I got up to go . 
He'd forgotten me , but he looked up then . 
That was a great suggestion of yours , Olden , to put Lord Gray on to act himself great ! His voice shook , he was so angry . 
I wasn't going to let him see that a big man raging could bluff Nance Olden . 
He's a funny fellow , that Lord Harold . 
Yes , I'm coming to it . 
He jumped at the idea , and they rigged up a little act for the two the Lord and the Lady . 
I cawn't act , you know . 
The ninny ! You know he thinks Gray really can . 
But Obermuller explained to him that he needn't act just be himself out behind the wings , and lo ! Lord Harold was chawmed . 
And Gray ? Why , she gave in at last pretended to , anyway sliding out of the Charity sketch , and rehearsing the thing with him , and all that . 
She waited till ten minutes before time for the thing to be put on and then threw a fit . 
He'd have liked to throw it at me if it'd been heavy enough to hurt he was so thumping mad . 
You see , there it was on the program THE CLEVER SKETCH ENTITLED THEATRICAL ARISTOCRACY . 
The celebrated Gray jewels , including the great Rose Diamond , will be worn by Lady Gray in this number . 
No wonder Obermuller was raging . 
You don't like to tackle a fellow like that when he's dancing hot . 
And yet you ache to help him and yes , yourself . 
Lord Harold's here yet , and the jewels ? I asked . 
He gave a short nod . 
But so was I. Then all he wants is a Lady ? That's all , he said sarcastically . 
Well , what's the matter with me ? He gasped . 
There's nothing the matter with your nerve , Olden . 
Thank you , so much . 
It was the way Gray says it when she tries to have an English accent . 
Dress me up , Fred Obermuller , in Gray's new silk gown and the Gray jewels , and you'd never I'd never set eyes on you again . 
You'd never know , if you were in the audience , that it wasn't Gray herself . 
I can take her off to the life , and if the prompter'll stand by He looked at me for a full minute . 
Try it , Olden , he said . 
I flew to Gray's dressing room . 
She'd gone home deathly ill , of course . 
They gave me the best seamstress in the place . 
She let out the waist a bit and pulled over the lace to cover it . 
I got into that mass of silk and lace oh , silk on silk , and Nance Olden inside ! Beryl Blackburn did my hair , and Grace Weston put on my slippers . 
Topham , himself , hung me with those gorgeous shining diamonds and pearls and emeralds , till I felt like an idol loaded with booty . 
There were so many standing round me , rigging me up , that I didn't get a glimpse of the mirror till the second before Ginger called me . 
That helped me at first . 
He was so cold , so stupid , so slow , so good tempered so just himself . 
And after the first plunge I tell you , Mag Monahan , there's one thing that's stronger than wine to a woman it's being beautiful . 
Oh ! And I was beautiful . 
I knew it before I got that quick hush , with the full applause after it . 
He was there yet when the act was over , and I trailed out , followed by my Lord . 
He let the prompt book fall from his hands and reached them both out to me . 
I flirted my jeweled fan at him and swept him a courtesy . 
Cool ? No , I wasn't . 
Not a bit of it . 
He was daffy with the sight of me in all that glory , and I knew it . 
The deuce you would ! I sailed past him , with Topham and my Lord in my wake . 
They didn't leave me till they'd stripped me clean . 
I felt like a Christmas tree the day after . 
But , somehow , I didn't care . 
Is that you , Mag ? Well , it's about time you came home to look after me . 
Sit down , Maggie , there , and let me get the stool and talk to you . 
Oh , and I forgot the telephone the other tenant left here till its lease is up . 
It spoils you , this sense of safeness that goes with the honesty graft . 
You lose the quickness of the hunter and the nerve of the hunted . 
And worse you lose your taste for the old risky life . 
You grow proud and fat , and you love every stick in the dear , quiet little place that's your home your own home . 
Do you know what a society entertainer is , Miss Monahan ? No ? Well , look at me . 
Miss Nance Olden , whose services are worth fifty dollars a night at least , they were one night . 
Ginger brought me the note that made me a society entertainer . 
Had I the leisure well , rather ! I showed the note to Gray , just to make her jealous . 
Well , she just turned up her nose . 
Of course , you won't accept ? she said . 
Of course , I will . 
He had come up and was reading the note I had handed to him . 
You just say yes , Nance , he went on , after Gray had bounced of to her dressing room . 
It isn't such a bad graft and and this is just between us two , mind that little beggar , Tausig , has begun his tricks since you turned his offer down . 
Well , this thing will be an ad for you , besides , if the papers can be got to notice it . 
There ought to be a way some way Yes , there ought , but there isn't . 
They've got things down to a fine point , and the fellow they don't fear has got to fear them . 
I'll put your number early to night , so that you can get off by nine . 
We're just a little party , said Mrs. Paul Gates , coming into the bedroom where I was taking of my wraps . 
I count on your giving him , in a way , a condensed history in action of what is going on on the stage . 
I told her I would . 
But I didn't just know what I was saying . 
Think of Latimer there , Maggie , and think of our last meeting ! It made me tremble . 
Not that I fancied for a moment he'd betray me . 
The man that helps you twice don't hurt you the third time . 
It was such a pretty little red bower . 
In that minute I got it , Mag yes , stage fright . 
I suppose it was coming to me , but Lordy ! I hadn't ever known before what it was . 
I could see the black of the men's clothes in the long parlors in front of me , and the white of the women's necks and arms . 
Fail ? Me ? Not Nancy , Maggie . 
I just took me by the shoulders . 
Nancy Olden , you little thief ! I cried to me inside of me . 
How dare you ! I'd rather you'd steal the silver on this woman's dressing table than cheat her out of what she expects and what's coming to her . 
The first one was bad . 
I gave 'em Duse's Francesca . 
You've never heard the wailing music in that woman's voice when she says There is no escape , Smaragdi . 
You have said it The shadow is a glass to me , and God Lets me be lost . 
I gave them Duse just to show them how swell I was myself which shows what a ninny I was . 
The thing the world loves is the opposite of what it is . 
The pat pat pat of their gloves came in to me when I got through . 
They were too polite to hiss . 
Inside of me there was a long , nasty hiss ss ss ! I couldn't bear it . 
I just jumped into something else to retrieve myself . 
I can do Carter's Du Barry to the Queen's taste , Maggie . 
Oh , I can do Du Barry all right ! They thought I could , too , those black and white shadows out there on the other side of the velvet curtains . 
But I cared less for what they thought than for the fact that I had drowned that sputtering hiss ss ss inside of me , and that Latimer was among them . 
Not a bad one , either , when you come to think of what I wanted from it . 
They pulled the curtains down at the end and I went back to the bedroom . 
I had my hat and jacket on when Mrs. Gates and some of the younger ladies came to see me there , but I caught no glimpse of Latimer . 
The dining room was all lighted , but empty the colored , shaded candlesticks glowing down on the cut glass and silver , on delicate china and flowers . 
The ladies and gentlemen hadn't come out to supper yet at least , only one was there . 
He was standing with his back to me , before the sideboard , pouring out a glass of something from a decanter . 
He turned at the rustle of my starched skirt , and , as I passed the door , he saw me . 
I saw him , too , and hurried away . 
Yes , I knew him . 
I got home here earlier than I'd expected , and I'd just got off my hat and jacket and put away that snug little check when there came a ring at the bell . 
I thought it was you , Mag that you'd forgotten your key . 
I was so sure of it that I pulled the door open wide with a flourish and And admitted Edward ! Yes , Edward , husband of the Dowager . 
The same red faced , big necked old fellow , husky voiced with whisky now , just as he was before . 
He must have been keeping it up steadily ever since the day out in the country when Tom lifted his watch . 
It'll take more than one lost watch to cure Edward . 
I followed you home , Miss Murieson , he said , grabbing me by the hand and pushing the door closed behind him . 
I jerked my hand away from him . 
I didn't ask you to call , I said , haughty as the Dowager herself was when first I saw her in her gorgeous parlor , the Bishop's card in her hand . 
No , I noticed that , he roared jovially . 
You skinned out the front door the moment you saw me . 
All that was left to me was to skin after . 
Why ? Why ! He slapped his leg as though he'd heard the best joke in the world . 
To renew our acquaintance , of course . 
To insist upon my privilege of relationship . 
To call that wink you gave me in the hall that day , you little devil . 
Now , don't look at me like that . 
I say , let's be friends won't you ? Not for a red coat trimmed with chinchilla , I cried . 
He got between me and the door . 
Prices gone up ? he inquired pleasantly . 
Who's bulling the stock ? Never you mind , so long as his name isn't Ramsay . 
But why shouldn't his name be Ramsay ? he cooed . 
Hadn't you better go home to Mrs. Dowager Diamonds ? Bully ! Is that what you call her ? No , I'll stay and meet your friend . 
Oh , I'm not afraid . 
Does he know as much about you as I do ? More . 
About your weakness for other girls' coats ? Yes . 
You do know it all , don't you ? And yet you care for me , Maggie Monahan ! I retreated before him into the dining room . 
What in the world to do to get rid of him ! I think you'd better go home , Mr. Ramsay , I said again , decidedly . 
If you don't , I'll have to call the janitor to put you out . 
He'll put you out with me for I'll tell him a thing or two about you , and we'll go and find a better place than this . 
Stock can't be quoted so high , after all , if this is the best prospectus your friend can put up . 
Why don't you call ? I looked at him . 
He plumped down on the lounge and patted the place beside him invitingly , giving me a wink that was deadly . 
But , Mrs. Dowager ! I exclaimed coquettishly . 
Oh , that's all right , little one ! She hasn't even missed me yet . 
When she's playing Bridge she forgets even to be jealous . 
And she isn't 'way off in Philadelphia either . 
She's just round the corner at Mrs. Gates' , and what's the matter ? Nothing nothing . 
Did she recognize me ? Oh , that's what scared you , is it ? She didn't recognize you . 
Neither did I , till I got that second glimpse of you with your hat and jacket on . 
Of course of course ! And her coming for no reason at all to your house , adds the Bishop . 
I got pale and sick inside of me at the thought of my poor little Bishop . 
I loved him for believing me straight and I've been dying of curiosity to know what was in your wise little head that day , he went on . 
Oh , it was wise all right that wink you gave me was perfectly sane there was method in that madness of yours . 
I will tell you , Mr. Ramsay , I said sweetly , at supper . 
Supper ! Yes , the supper you're going to get for me . 
His bellowing laughter filled the place . 
Maggie , our little flat and our few things don't go well with sounds like that . 
Oh , you're all alike , you women ! he roared . 
All right , supper it is . 
Where shall we go Rector's ? I pouted . 
It's so much more cozy right here , I said . 
There's Brophy's , just round the corner , and they send in the loveliest things . 
Oh , they do ! Well , tell 'em to begin sending . 
I thought he'd follow me out in the hall to the 'phone , but he was having some trouble in pulling out his purse to count out his money , I suppose . 
I got Central and asked for the number . 
Oh , yes , I knew it all right I had called up that same number once , already , to day . 
Brophy's ? Why , Maggie Monahan , you ought to know there's no Brophy's . 
At least none that I ever heard about . 
Say , say , interrupted Edward , coming out after me . 
That's enough of that stuff . 
Tell him to send in a Scotch and soda and what For at that moment the connection was made and I cut in sweetly with Mrs. Edward Ramsay ? just a minute . 
Mag , you should have seen the man's face ! It was red , it was white it was furious , it was frightened . 
I put my hand a moment over the mouthpiece and turned on him then . 
I've got her on the 'phone at Mrs. Gates' house . 
Shall I tell your wife where you are , Edward ? . 
Just a moment , Mrs. Ramsay , hold the wire some one wants to speak with you . 
You little devil ! His voice was thick with rage . 
Yes , you called me that some time ago , but not in that tone . 
Quick , now the door or . 
Waiting , Mrs. Ramsay ? He moved toward the door . 
How'll I know you won't tell her when I'm gone ? he growled . 
Merely by my saying that I won't , I answered curtly . 
You're in no position to dictate terms I am . 
But I could , without leaving the 'phone , latch the chain on the door behind him , leaving it half open . 
So he must have heard the rest . 
Yes , Mrs. Ramsay , waiting ? I croaked like the driest kind of hello girl . 
It was a message left to be delivered to you not some one wanting to speak with you . 
Who am I ? Why , this is Central . 
Here is the message Will be with you in half an hour . 
I hung up , gave the door a touch that shut it in his face and went back into the dining room to throw open the windows . 
The place smelled of alcohol the moral atmosphere left behind by that bad old man sickened me . 
I leaned out and looked at the stars and tried to think of something sweet and wholesome and strengthening . 
This time I was sure it was you . 
And , O Maggie , I ran to the door eager for the touch of your hand and the look in your eyes . 
I was afraid to be alone with my own thoughts . 
I was afraid of the conclusion to which they were leading me . 
Maggie , if ever a girl needed comfort and encouragement and heartening , I did then . 
And I got it , dear . 
For there was a man at the door , with a great basket of azaleas pale , pink earth stars they are , the sweet , innocent things and a letter for me . 
Let me read it to you . 
My dear Miss Omar Once on a time there was a Luckless Pot , marred in the making , that had the luck to be of service to a Pipkin . 
It was a saucy Pipkin , though a very winning one , and it had all the health and strength the poor Pot lacked physically . 
Morally morally , that young Pipkin was in a most unwholesome condition . 
Already its fair , smooth surface was scratched and fouled . 
It was unmindful of the treasure of good it contained , and its responsibility to keep that good intact . 
And it seemed destined to crash itself to pieces among pots of baser metal . 
What the Luckless Pot did was little being ignorant of the art by which diamonds may be attained easily and honestly but it gave the little Pipkin a chance . 
What the Pipkin did with that chance the Pot learned to night , with such pleasure and satisfaction as made it impossible for him not to share it with her . 
The Pot , as you know , was a sort of stranded bit of clay that had never filled the use for which pots are created . 
He had little human to interest him . 
This justification of his faith in the Pipkin may seem a small matter to make so much of . 
But do not think the Pot an idealist . 
For you , be sure , the Potter's a good fellow and 'twill all be well . 
But it has been well that , before we two behind the veil had passed , we met again , and you left me such a fragrant memory . 
O Maggie , Maggie , some day I hope to see that man and tell him how sorely the Pipkin needed the Pot's letter ! IX . 
It's all come so quick , Maggie , and it was over so soon that I hardly remember the beginning . 
Nobody on earth could have expected it less than I , when I came off in the afternoon . 
It may have been that I was chuckling to myself at the thought of Nancy Olden with a dressing room all to herself . 
I can't ever quite get used to that , you know , though I sail around there with all the airs of the leading lady . 
They must have moved just like that when I was behind them months it seems years ago . 
But , you see , Topham had never served an apprenticeship behind curtains , so he didn't suspect . 
Lordy , Nancy , I laughed to myself , some one thinks you've got a rose diamond and nd at that moment he parted the curtains and came out . 
My heart came beating up to my throat and then , just as I thought I should choke , it slid down to my boots , sickening me . 
I didn't say a word . 
I sat there , my foot in my lap , staring at him . 
It's it's changed , Maggie . 
It's heavy and and coarse and brutal . 
It sounds like like the knout , like Nance what in hell's I think I'm frightened , Tom . 
Oh , the ladyfied airs of her ! Ain't you going to faint , Miss Olden ? I got up . 
How how did you get here ? He went to the door , opened it a bit and looked out cautiously . 
Mag Mag it hurt me that . 
Why , do you suppose ? You're sure nobody'll come in ? he asked . 
I turned the key in the lock , forgetting that it didn't really lock . 
Oh , yes , I'm sure , I said . 
Why ? Why ! You have got slow . 
Just because I didn't say good by to them fellows up at the Pen , and Oh ! You've escaped ! That's what . 
First jail break in fifteen years . 
What d'ye think of your Tommy , old girl , eh ? Ain't he the gamest ? Ain't you proud of him ? My God , Mag ! Proud of him . 
He didn't know he couldn't see himself . 
He , shut in like a wild beast , couldn't see what this year has done for him . 
And this man his face is old , Mag , old oh ! and hard and and tough , cheap and tough . 
There's something in his eyes now and about his shaven mouth oh , Maggie , Maggie ! Look here , Nance . 
He caught me by the shoulders , knocking up my chin so that he could look down squarely at me . 
What's your graft ? What's it to be between us ? What've ye been doing all this time ? Out with it ! I want to know . 
I shook myself free and faced him . 
I've been Tom Dorgan , I've been to hear the greatest actors and actresses in the world say and do the finest things in the world . 
I've watched princesses and kings even if they're only stage ones . 
I've read a new book every night a great picture book , in which the pictures move and speak that's the stage , Tom Dorgan . 
Much of it wasn't true , but a girl who's been brought up by the Cruelty doesn't have to be told what's true and what's false . 
I've met these people and lived with them as one does who thinks the same thoughts and feels what others feel . 
I know the world now , Tom Dorgan , the real world of men and women not the little world of crooks , nor yet the littler one of fairy stories . 
You needn't sneer it's made a different Nance out of me , Tom Dorgan . 
I was shivering at the name , but I couldn't bear his thinking that way of me . 
I went up once , but they wouldn't let me see you . 
I wrote you , but they sent back the letters . 
Mag went up , too , but had to come back . 
And that time I brought you My voice trailed off . 
In that minute I saw myself on the way up to Sing Sing with the basket and all my hopes and all my schemes for amusing him . 
I thought you wouldn't go back on a feller , Nance . 
That's why I come straight to you . 
It was my game to have you hide me for a day or two , till you could make a strike somewhere and we'd light out together . 
You'd think a man would know when the woman he's holding in his arms is fainting sick at the touch of him . 
He laughed when I broke away from him at last . 
He laughed ! And I knew then I'd have to tell him straight in words . 
Tom , I gasped , you can have all I've got and it's plenty to get you out of the way . 
But but you can't have me any more . 
That's done ! Oh , the beast in his face ! It must have looked like that when the guard got his last glimpse of it . 
You're kiddin' me ? he growled . 
Then he ripped it out . 
Said the worst he could and ended with a curse ! The blood boiled in me . 
The old Nance never stood that she used to sneer at other women who did . 
Get out of here ! I cried . 
Go go , Tom Dorgan . 
I tell you you'll come with me 'cause I need you and I want you , and I want you now . 
And I'll keep you when once I get you again . 
No more o' this one sided lay out for me , where you get all the soft and it's me for the hard . 
Just think back a bit , Nance Olden , and remember the kind of customer I am . 
I made a rush for the door . 
He got there , too , and catching me by the shoulder , he lifted his fist . 
But it never fell , Mag . 
I think I could kill a man who struck me . 
But just as I shut my eyes and shivered away from him , while I waited for the blow , a knock came at the door and Fred Obermuller walked in . 
Eh ? Oh ! Excuse me . 
I didn't know there was anybody else . 
Nance , your face is ghastly . 
What's up ? he said sharply . 
My senses came back to me then . 
Tom , I said slowly , Mr. Obermuller is a friend of mine . 
No listen ! What we've been talking about is settled . 
Don't bring it up again . 
It doesn't interest him and it can't change me I swear to you , it can't nothing can . 
Because she's your Tom ! I cried . 
Tom oh , yes , now I remember . 
Obermuller got between us as he spoke . 
Your friend up in the country that you went to see and couldn't . 
Not a very good looker , your friend , Nance . 
But farming , I suppose , Mr. Tom ? plays the deuce with one's looks . 
And another thing it does it makes a man forget sometimes just how to behave in town . 
I'll be charmed , Mr. Tom , to oblige a friend of Miss Olden's but I must insist that he does not talk like a farmer . 
He was quite close to Tom when he finished , and Tom was glaring up at him . 
And , Mag , I didn't know which one I was most afraid for . 
It's because she's got brains , talent , and a heart . 
It's because well , it's because I feel like it , and she deserves a friend . 
You don't know what she is . 
It was a snarl from Tom . 
You don't Oh , yes , I do you cur ! I know what she was , too . 
And I even know what she will be but that doesn't concern you . 
The hell it don't ! Obermuller turned his back on him . 
I was dumb and still . 
Tom Dorgan had struck me after all . 
What is it you want me to do , Nance ? Obermuller asked . 
Get him away on a steamer quick , I murmured I couldn't look him in the face without asking why , or what his name is . 
Well ? I won't go not without her . 
Because you're so fond of her , eh ? So fond , your first thought on quitting the country was to come here to get her in trouble . 
If you've been traced Ah ! You wouldn't like that , eh ? sneered Tom . 
Would you ? Well , I've had my share of it . 
Just what would it be worth to you to have me out of the way ? Oh , Tom Tom I cried . 
But Obermuller got in front of me . 
It would be worth exactly one dollar and seventy five cents . 
I think it will amount to about that for cab hire . 
I guess the cars aren't any too safe for you , or it might be less . 
It may amount to something more before I get you shipped before the mast on the first foreign bound boat . 
But what's more important , he added , bringing his fist down with a mighty thump on the table , you have just ten seconds to make up your mind . 
At the end of that time I'll ring for the police . 
I went down to the boat to see it sail , Mag , at seven this morning . 
No , not to say good by to him . 
He didn't know I was there . 
It was to say good by to my old Tommy the one I loved . 
Truly I did love him , Mag , though he never cared for me . 
Men don't pull down the women they love I know that now . 
If Tom Dorgan had ever cared for me he wouldn't have made a thief of me . 
If he'd cared , he But it's done , Mag . 
Cheap that's what he is , this Tom Dorgan . 
Cheaply bad a cheap bully , cheap brained . 
Remember my wishing he'd have been a ventriloquist ? Why , that man that tried to sell me to Obermuller hasn't sense enough to be a good scene shifter . 
Oh The firm of Dorgan Olden is dissolved , Mag . 
The retiring partner has gone into the theatrical business . 
As for Dorgan the real one , poor fellow ! jolly , handsome , big Tom Dorgan he died . 
Yes , he died , Maggie , and was buried up there in the prison graveyard . 
A hard lot for a boy but it's not the worst thing that can happen to him . 
He might become a man such a man as that fellow that sailed away before the mast this morning . 
She's a fat leading lady , very fair and nearly fifty , I guess . 
But she's got a rollicking , husky voice in her fat throat that's sung the dollars down deep into her pockets . 
They say she's planted them deeper still in the foundations of apartment houses and that now she's the richest roly poly on the Rialto . 
Nance , I said , I kind of fancy that apartment sort of idea myself . 
They tell you , Nancy , that when you've got the artistic temperament , that that's all you'll ever have . 
But there's a chance one in a hundred for a body to get that temperament mixed with a business instinct . 
But when it does the result is dollars . 
It may be , Nance I shrewdly suspect it is a fact that you've got that marvelous mixture . 
Your early successes , Miss Olden , in another profession that I needn't name , would encourage the idea that you're not all heart and no head . 
I think , Nance , I shall have you mimic the artists during working hours and the business men when you're at play . 
We'll call one The Nancy' and another Olden Hall' and another . 
What'll I call the third apartment house , Mr. O ? I asked aloud , as I heard the rings on the portiere behind me click . 
Without turning my head I repeated the question . 
And yet suddenly before he could have answered , I knew something was wrong . 
And in that moment a man took the seat beside me and another stood facing me , with his back against the portieres . 
Miss Olden ? the man beside me asked . 
Nance Olden , the mimic , who entertains at private houses ? I nodded . 
We don't want to make any scene here , he said very low . 
We want to do it up as quietly as we can . 
There might be some mistake , you know , and then you'd be sorry . 
I hope you'll be reasonable and it'll be all the better for you because What are you talk what I looked from him to the other fellow behind us . 
He leaned a bit farther forward then , and pulling his coat partly open , he showed me a detective's badge . 
And the other man quickly did the same . 
I sat back in my chair . 
I'll never mimic that song , Mag , although I can see her and hear it as plain as though I'd listened and watched her all my life . 
But there's no fun in it for me . 
I hate the very bars the orchestra plays before she begins to sing . 
I can't bear even to think of the words . 
The whole of it is full of horrible things it smells of the jail it looks like stripes it . 
You're not going to faint ? asked the man , moving closer to me . 
Me ? I never fainted in my life . 
Where is he now Tom Dorgan ? Tom Dorgan ! Yes . 
I was sure I saw him sail , but , of course , I was mistaken . 
He has sent you after me , has he ? I can hardly believe it of Tom even even yet . 
I don't know anything that connects you with Dorgan . 
If he was in with you on this , you'd better remember , before you say anything more , that it'll all be used against you . 
The curtain had gone down and gone up again . 
I was watching the star . 
You won't have any use for it all . 
Just what is the charge ? I asked , turning to the man beside me . 
Stealing a purse containing three hundred dollars from Mrs. Paul Gates' house on the night of April twenty seventh . 
What ! It was Obermuller . 
He had pushed the curtains aside the crashing of the orchestra had prevented our hearing the clatter of the rings . 
He had pushed by the man standing there , had come in and he had heard . 
I don't believe a word of it . 
He turned in his quick way to the men . 
What are your orders ? To take her to her flat and search it . 
Obermuller came over to me then , and took my hand for a minute . 
It's a pity they don't know about the Gray rose diamond , he whispered , helping me on with my jacket . 
They'd see how silly this little three hundred dollar business is . 
Don't you ? he laughed . 
Clever people don't do asinine things . 
And other clever people know that they don't . 
You're clever , but so am I in my weak , small way . 
Come along , little girl . 
He pulled my hand in his arm and we walked out , followed by the two men . 
Oh , no ! It was all very quiet and looked just like a little theater party that had an early supper engagement . 
Obermuller nodded to the manager out in the deserted lobby , who stopped us and asked me what I thought of the star . 
You'll think me mad , Mag . 
Bravo ! bravo ! whispered the manager , hoarsely , clapping his hands softly . 
I gave one of those quick , funny , boyish nods the star inside affects and wiped my lips with my handkerchief . 
That brought down my house . 
Even the biggest fellow with the badge giggled recognizingly , and then put his hand quickly in front of his mouth and tried to look severe and official . 
The color had come back to Obermuller's face it was worth dancing for that . 
Be patient , Mag let me tell it my way . 
There wasn't room in the coupe waiting out in front for more than two . 
So Obermuller couldn't come in it . 
But he put me in Mag , dear , dear Mag he put me in as if I was a lady not like Gray a real one . 
A thing like that counts when two detectives are watching . 
It counted afterward in the way they treated me . 
The big man climbed up on the seat with the driver . 
The blue eyed fellow got in and sat beside me , closing the door . 
I'll be out there almost as soon as you are , Obermuller said , standing a moment beside the lowered window . 
You good fellow ! I said , and then , trying to laugh I'll do as much for you some day . 
He shook his fist laughingly at me , and I waved my hand as we drove of . 
You know , Miss , there may be some mistake about this , said the man next to me , and Yes , there may be . 
In fact , there is . 
I'm sure I'll be very glad if it is a mistake . 
They do happen though not often . 
You spoke of Dorgan Did I ? Yes , Tom Dorgan , who busted out of Sing Sing the other day . 
Surely you're mistaken , I said , smiling right into his blue eyes . 
The Tom Dorgan I mentioned is a sleight of hand performer at the Vaudeville . 
Ever see him ? N no . 
Perhaps you don't recognize him under that name . 
On the bills he's Professor Haughwout . 
Stage people have so many names , you know . 
Yes , so have some other people . 
I laughed , and he grinned back at me . 
Now that's mean of you , I said I never had but one . 
It was all I needed . 
It flashed through me then what a thing like this might do to a name . 
You know , Mag , every bit of recognition an actress steals from the world is so much capital . 
It isn't like the old graft when you had to begin new every time you took up a piece of work . 
But I didn't dare think long of this . 
Tell me about this charge , I said . 
And then she thought of me ? And then she thought of you . 
I wonder why ? Because you were the only person in that room except Mrs. Gates , the lady who lost the purse , Mrs. Ramsay , and eh ? N nothing . 
Mrs. Ramsay , you said ? Yes . 
Not Mrs. Edward Ramsay , of Philadelphia ? Oh , you know the name ? Oh , yes , I know it . 
It was printed , you know , in gold lettering on the inside flap and I don't know . 
Well , it was , and it contained three hundred dollars , Mrs. Ramsay says . 
In fact , if that fellow hadn't just come in then I believe you'd 'a' confessed the whole job . 
'Tain't too late , he added . 
I put my head back against the cushions and closed my eyes . 
I could feel the scrutiny of his blue eyes on my naked face your face is so unprotected with the eyes closed like a fort whose battery is withdrawn . 
But I was tired it tires you when you care . 
A year ago , Mag , this sort of thing the risk , the nearness to danger , the chances one way or the other would have intoxicated me . 
I used to feel as though I was dancing on a volcano and daring it to explode . 
The more twistings and turnings there were to the labyrinth , the greater glory it was to get out . 
Maggie darlin' , you have before you a mournful spectacle the degeneration of Nancy Olden . 
It isn't that she's lost courage . 
When we got to the flat Obermuller was already there . 
At the door I pulled out my key and opened it with a flourish . 
Won't you come in , gentlemen , and spend the evening ? I asked . 
The two fellows threw off their coats and searched that through and through not a drawer did they miss , not a bit of furniture did they fail to move . 
Obermuller and I sat there guying them as they pried about in their shirt sleeves . 
That Trust business has taken the life out of him of late . 
All their tricks , all their squeezings , their cheatings , their bossing and bragging and bullying have got on to his nerves till he looks like a chained bear getting a drubbing . 
And he swears that they're in a conspiracy to freeze him and a few others like him out he believes there's actually a paper in existence that would prove it . 
But this affair of the purse seemed to excite him till he behaved like a bad school boy . 
And I ? Well , Nance Olden was never far behind at the Cruelty when there was anything going on . 
Mag , you should have seen Fred Obermuller with a big apron on him , dressing the salad while I was making sandwiches . 
The Cruelty taught me how to cook , even if it did teach me other things . 
You wouldn't have believed that the Trust had got him by the throat , and was choking the last breath out of him . 
The salad bowl had slipped from Obermuller's fingers . 
He stood with his back turned to me , his eyes fixed upon that searching detective . 
But he wasn't searching any more , Mag . 
He was standing still as a pointer that's scented game . 
He had moved the lounge out from the wall , and there on the floor , spread open where it had fallen , lay a handsome elephant skin purse , with gold corners . 
From where I stood , Mag , I could read the plain gold lettering on the dark leather . 
I didn't have to move . 
It was plain enough quite plain . 
I don't know what his idea was . 
I don't suppose he does exactly if it wasn't to spare me the sight of that damned thing . 
Oh , how I hated it , that purse ! I hated it as if it had been something alive that could be glad of what it had done . 
But I only stood there , stupidly looking at it , having pushed past Obermuller , as though I never wanted to see anything else . 
And then I heard that blue eyed fellow's words . 
Well , he said , pulling on his coat as though he'd done a good day's work , I guess you'd just better come along with me . 
Don't you think you'd better get out of this ? I asked Obermuller , as he came into the station a few minutes after I got there . 
Because ? Because it won't do you any good to have your name mixed up with a thing like this . 
But it might do you some good . 
I didn't answer for a minute after that . 
I sat in my chair , my eyes bent on the floor . 
I counted the cracks between the chair and the floor of the office where the Chief was busy with another case . 
I counted them six times , back and forth , till my eyes were clear and my voice was steady . 
You're awfully good , I said , looking up at him as he stood by me . 
You're the best fellow I ever knew . 
I didn't know men could be so good to women . 
But you'd better go please . 
It'll be bad enough when the papers get hold of this , without having them lump you in with a bad lot like me . 
He put his hand on my shoulder and gave it a quick little shake . 
Don't say that about yourself . 
You're not a bad lot . 
But you saw the purse . 
Yes , I saw it . 
But it hasn't proved anything to me but this you're innocent , Nance , or you're crazy . 
If it's the first , I want to stand by you , little girl . 
If it's the second good God ! I've got to stand by you harder than ever . 
But I could feel , too , a warmth like wine poured into me from that big fellow's voice . 
I put my hand up to him and he took it . 
If I'm innocent and can prove it , Fred Obermuller , I'll get even with you for for this . 
The blood rushed to my face . 
Hush ! But that's better . 
Tell me now A buzzer sounded . 
The blue eyed detective got up and came over to me . 
Chief's ready , he said . 
They stopped Obermuller at the door . 
But he pushed past them . 
I want to say just a word to you , Chief , he said . 
I'm Obermuller , of the Vaudeville . 
If you'll send those fellows out and let me speak to you just a moment , I'll leave you alone with Miss Olden . 
The Chief nodded to the blue eyed detective , and he and the other fellow went out and shut the door behind them . 
The Chief grinned under his white mustache . 
It's true I can't pay salaries always when they're due , but I can still raise a few hundred to help a friend . 
And Miss Olden is a friend of mine . 
If you can prove that she took this money , you prove only that she's gone mad , but you don't All right , Obermuller . 
You're not the lawyer for the defense . 
That'll come later if it does come . 
I'll be glad to bear in mind all you've said , and much that you haven't . 
I'll wait for you , Nance , outside . 
I'm going to ask you a lot of questions , Miss Olden , the old Chief said , when we were alone . 
Morris tells me you've got more nerve than any woman that's ever come before me , so I needn't bother to reassure you . 
You don't look like a girl that's easily frightened . 
Now , why did you do all that ? Why ? Because I felt like it . 
Hm ! He looked at me from under his heavy , wrinkled old lids . 
You don't get nice eyes from looking on the nasty things in this world , Mag . 
Of course , he added softly , you won't misunderstand me . 
I'm simply suggesting the different kinds of girl that could have done what you did . 
But , if you don't mind , I'll do the questioning . 
I threw up my head and looked him full in the face . 
It was over now all the shivering and trembling and fearing . 
Nance Olden's not a coward when she's fighting for her freedom and fighting alone without any sympathizing friend to weaken her . 
He returned the look with interest . 
I may know more , he said insinuatingly . 
No , it wasn't put on . 
There never yet was a man who bullied me that didn't rouse the fighter in me . 
I swore to myself that this old thief catcher shouldn't rattle me . 
Doesn't it occur It might occur to me if I had anything to confess about this purse . 
How long since you've seen Mrs. Edward Ramsay ? He rushed the question at me . 
How do you know I've ever seen her ? I do know you have . 
Thank you neither do I believe you , which is more to the point . 
Come , answer the question how long is it since you have seen the lady ? I looked at him . 
And then I looked at my glove , and slowly pulled the fingers inside out , and then then I giggled . 
It it must be all of fifteen months . 
Ah ! You see I did know that you've met the lady . 
If you're wise you'll draw deductions as to other things I know that you don't think I do . 
And where did you see her ? In her own home . 
Called there , he sneered , alone ? No , I said very gently . 
I went there , to the best of my recollection , with the Bishop yes , it was the Bishop , Bishop Van Wagenen . 
Indeed ! I could see that he didn't believe a word I was saying , which made me happily eager to tell him more . 
Yes , we drove up to the Square one afternoon in the Bishop's carriage the fat , plum colored one , you know . 
We had tea there at least , I did . 
I was to have spent the night , but That's enough of that . 
Yes , Mag Monahan , I was enjoying myself . 
I was having a run for my money , even if it was the last run I was to have . 
So it's fifteen months since you've seen Mrs. Ramsay , eh ? Yes . 
He turned on me with a roar . 
And yet it's only a week since you saw her at Mrs. Gates' . 
No ? Take care ! That night at Mrs. Gates' it was dark , you know , in the front room . 
I didn't see Mrs. Ramsay that night . 
I didn't know she was there at all till Till ? Till later I was told . 
Who told you ? Her husband . 
He threw down his pencil . 
Look here , this is no lark , young woman , and you needn't trouble yourself to weave any more fairy tales . 
Mr. Ramsay is in a he's very ill . 
His own wife hasn't seen him since that night , so you see you're lying uselessly . 
Really ! So Edward didn't go back to Mrs. Gates' that night . 
How do you account for it what is your theory ? He got to his feet , pushing his chair back sharply . 
Well , you gave me to understand that it was , then . 
What difference does it make ? It would be a still stupider thief who'd leave a full purse instead of an empty one under his own lounge . 
Yes and you're not stupid , Miss Olden . 
I'm sorry I can't say as much for you . 
He was such a stupid . 
The idea of telling me that Fred Obermuller believed me guilty ! The idea of thinking me such a fool as to believe that ! Such men as that make criminals . 
They're so fat witted you positively ache they so tempt you to pull the wool over their eyes . 
O Mag , if the Lord had only made men cleverer , there'd be fewer Nancy Oldens . 
The Chief blew a blast at his speaking tube that made his purple cheeks seem about to burst . 
My shoulders shook as I watched him , he was so wrathy . 
And I was still laughing when I followed the detective out into the waiting room , where Obermuller was pacing the floor . 
At the sight of my smiling face he came rushing to me . 
Oh , Mag , I don't like that word . 
It stings it binds it cuts . 
I don't know what I looked like then I wasn't thinking of me . 
I was watching Obermuller's face . 
It seemed to grow old and thin and haggard before my eyes , as the blood drained out of it . 
He turned with an exclamation to the Chief and And just then there came a long ring at the telephone . 
The Chief himself went to answer it . 
Yes what ? he growled . 
Well , tell Long Distance to get busy . 
Francis that's the jag ward , isn't it ? Who is it ? Who ? Ramsay ! I caught Obermuller's hand . 
I don't hear you , the Chief roared . 
Oh yes ? Yes , we've got the thief , but the money no , we haven't got the money . 
The deuce you say ! Took it yourself ? Out of your wife's purse yes . 
But we've got the What ? Don't remember where you Steady , Nance , whispered Obermuller , grabbing my other hand . 
I tried to stand steady , but everything swayed and I couldn't hear the rest of what the Chief was saying , though all my life seemed condensed into a listening . 
But I did hear when he jammed the receiver on the hook and faced us . 
Well , they've got the money . 
Ramsay took the purse himself , thinking it wasn't safe there under the spread where any servant might be tempted who chanced to uncover it . 
You'll admit the thing looked shady . 
The reason Mrs. Ramsay didn't know of it is because the old man's just come to his senses in a hospital and been notified that the purse was missing . 
I want to apologize to you , Chief , I mumbled . 
For thinking me stupid ? Oh , we were both No , for thinking me not stupid . 
I am stupid stupid stupid . 
It was then that they sent for you , Mag . 
Why didn't I tell it straight at the first , you dear old Mag ? Because I didn't know the straight of it , then , myself . 
I was so heavy witted I never once thought of Edward . 
When Obermuller sent for me I thought he wanted to see me about that play he's writing in which I'm to star when the pigs begin to fly . 
Funniest thing in the world about that man , Mag . 
He knows that there isn't an unwatched hole in theatrical America through which he can crawl and pull me and the play in after him . 
And yet he just can't let go working on it . 
Obermuller has told me all the plot . 
In fact , he's worked it out on me . 
I know it as it is , as he wanted it to be , and as it's going to be . 
And then he remembers that there's no chance not the ghost of one and he falls to swearing at the Trust . 
They've done me up that's all . 
Just as they've fixed Iringer and Gaffney and Howison . 
He threw out his arms and then let them fall to his side . 
Oh , it's easy , he cried , so easy that I never thought of it . 
They've just bought the Vaudeville out of hand and served notice on me that when my lease expires next month they'll not be able to renew it , unfortunately' ! That's all . 
It's just a hint , you know , but it works all right . 
It works like What are you going to do what can you do ? Shoot Tausig or myself , or both of us . 
Nonsense ! Yes , of course , it's nonsense , or rather it's only what I'd like to do . 
But that's not the question . 
It's what are you going to do ? He looked straight at me , waiting . 
You don't realize , Nance , what those fellows are capable of . 
When Gaffney told me , before he gave up and went West , that there was a genuine signed conspiracy among them to crush out us independents , I laughed at him . 
It's a dream , Gaffney , I said . 
It's no dream , as you'll find out when your turn comes in time , he shouted . 
I don't believe it , anyway , Mr. O and 'tisn't good for you to keep thinking about just one thing . 
You'll land where Iringer did , if you don't look out . 
How did he know about it , anyway ? There was a leak in Tausig's office . 
Iringer used to be in with them , and he had it from a clerk who but never mind that . 
It's the blacklisting I'm talking about now . 
Gray's just been in to see me , to let me know that she quits at the end of the season . 
And his Lordship , too , of course . 
You're not burdened with a contract , Nance . 
Perhaps you'd better think it over seriously for a day or two and decide if it wouldn't be best I don't have to , I interrupted then . 
Nance ! he cried , jumping up , as though he'd been relieved of half his troubles . 
I don't have to think it over , I went on slowly , not looking at the hand he held out to me . 
It doesn't take long to know that when you're between the devil and the deep sea , you'd better try the devil rather than be forced out into the wet . 
What ? you don't mean I knew he was looking at me incredulously , but I just wouldn't meet his eye . 
My staying with you will do you no good was hurrying now to get it over with and it would do me a lot of harm . 
I think you're right , Mr. Obermuller I'd better just go over to where it's warm . 
He sat down on the edge of the desk . 
I caught one glimpse of his face . 
It was black that was enough for me . 
Ah , but it did , Miss Olden , it did ! he sneered . 
I won't believe it on the word of a man that's been in the lunatic asylum ever since he lost his theater . 
Perhaps you'll believe it on mine . 
No no , I said thoughtfully . 
Do you mean to say you'd you'd If 'twere done , 'twere better it'd be done quickly , I said Macbethically . 
Sitting there on his desk , his clenched fist on his knee , he looked for a moment as though he was about to fly at me . 
Then all of a sudden he slipped into his chair , leaned back and laughed . 
It wasn't a pleasant laugh , Mag . 
Let me tell you the rest . 
I might even suggest that by cultivating Tausig personally You needn't . 
No , you're right I needn't . 
You can discount any suggestion I might make . 
Don't worry about terms , you poor little babe in the woods . 
Don't His own words seemed to choke him . 
Don't you think I began a bit unsteadily . 
I think oh , what a fool I've been ! That stiffened me . 
Of course , you have , I said cordially . 
It's silly to fight the push , isn't it ? It's only the cranks that get cocky and think they can upset the fellows on top . 
The thing to do is to find out which is the stronger if you're a better man than the other fellow , down him . 
If he's the champion , enlist under him . 
You spend your life hoping to live to morrow , while the Tausigs are living high to day . 
The thing to do is to be humble if you can't be arrogant . 
If they've got you in the door , don't curse , but placate them . 
Think of Gaffney herding sheep out in Nevada of Iringer in the asylum of Howison Admirable ! admirable ! he interrupted sarcastically . 
The only fault I have to find with your harangue is that you've misconceived my meaning entirely . 
But I needn't enlighten you . 
Good morning , Miss Olden good by . 
He turned to his desk and pulled out some papers . 
I knew he wasn't so desperately absorbed in them as he pretended to be . 
Won't you shake hands , I asked , and wish me luck ? He put down his pen . 
His face was white and hard , but as he looked at me it gradually softened . 
I suppose I suppose , I am a bit unreasonable just this minute , he said slowly . 
I'm hard hit and and I don't just know the way out . 
But Tausig received me with open arms . 
Got tired of staying out in the cold eh ? he grinned . 
I'm tired of vaudeville , I answered . 
Can't you give me a chance in a comedy ? Hm ! Ambitious , ain't you ? Obermuller has a play all ready for me written for me . 
He'd star me fast enough if he had the chance . 
But he'll never get the chance . 
Oh , I don't know . 
He's on the toboggan that's where they all get , my dear , when they get big headed enough to fight us . 
But Obermuller's not like the others . 
You see , he wouldn't keep away from me while he was thinking of it . 
He kept consulting me about everything in it . 
In a way , we worked over it together . 
The little man looked at me , slowly closing one eye . 
It is a habit of his when he's going to do something particularly nasty . 
Then , in a way , as you say , it is part yours . 
Hardly ! Imagine Nance Olden writing a line of a play ! Still you collaborated that's the word . 
Has he drilled you any , eh ? He was the best stage manager we ever had before he got the notion of managing for himself and ruining himself . 
Well , he's all that yet . 
Of course , he has told me , and we agreed how the thing should be done . 
She could give him the plot and as much of her own part in full as she could remember . 
Used to be a newspaper man . 
Smart fellow , that , when he's sober . 
He could piece out the holes yes ? I looked at him . 
The little beast sat there , slowly closing one eye and opening it again . 
I I wouldn't like to make an enemy of a man like Obermuller , Mr. Tausig . 
Bah ! Ain't I told you he's on the toboggan ? But you never can tell with a man like that . 
Suppose he got into that combine with Heffelfinger and Dixon and Weinstock ? What're you talking about ? Well , it's what I've heard . 
But Heffelfinger and Dixon and Weinstock are all in with us who told you that fairy story ? Obermuller himself . 
His is a creaky , almost silent little laugh if a spider could laugh he'd laugh that way . 
They're fooling him a bunch or two . 
Oh , he said that you thought they were in with you , but that nothing but a written agreement would hold men like that . 
And that you hadn't got . 
Smart fellow , that Obermuller . 
He'd have been a good man to have in the business if it hadn't been for those independent ideas he's got . 
He's right it takes So there is an agreement ! I shouted , in spite of myself , as I leaned forward . 
He sat back in his chair , or , rather , he let it swallow him again . 
What business is that of yours ? Stick to the business on hand . 
Get to work on that play with Mason inside . 
If it's good , and we decide to put it on , we'll pay you five hundred dollars down in addition to your salary . 
If it's rot , you'll have your salary weekly all the time you're at it , just the same as if you were working , till I can place you . 
In the meantime , keep your ears and eyes open and watch things , and your mouth shut . 
I'll speak to Mason and he'll be ready for you to morrow morning . 
Come round in the morning there's nobody about then , and we want to keep this thing dark till it's done . 
Obermuller mustn't get any idea what we're up to . 
He don't love you no for shaking him ? He's furious wouldn't even say good by . 
I'm done for with him , anyway , I guess . 
But what could I do ? Nothing , my dear nothing . 
You're a smart little girl , he chuckled . 
Just what I'd been hoping for I don't know , but I knew that my chance had come that morning . 
For a week I had been talking Obermuller's comedy to Mason , the secretary . 
In the evenings I stood about in the wings and watched the Van Twiller company in Brambles . 
He found her and made her , one of 'em said just dug her out of the ground . 
What more I don't know . 
But she hasn't set foot on the stage yet under Tausig , and they say Obermuller I didn't get the rest of it , so I don't know what they say about Obermuller . 
I only know what they've said to him about me . 
'Tisn't hard to make men believe those things . 
But I had to stand it . 
What could I do ? I couldn't tell Fred Obermuller that I was making over his play , soul and as much body as I could remember , to Tausig's secretary . 
He'd have found that harder to believe than the other thing . 
It hasn't been a very happy week for me , I can tell you , Maggie . 
But I forgot it all , every shiver and ache of it , when I came into the office that morning , as usual , and found Mason alone . 
Not altogether alone he had his bottle . 
And he had had it and others of the same family all the night before . 
The poor drunken wretch hadn't been home at all . 
The thing that favored me was Tausig's distrust of everybody connected with him . 
He hates his partners only a bit less than he hates the men outside the Trust . 
The bigger and richer the Syndicate grows , the more power and prosperity it has , the more he begrudges them their share of it the more he wants it all for himself . 
He is madly suspicious of his clerks , and hires others to watch them , to spy upon them . 
He is a full partner of Braun and Lowenthal with mental reservations . 
He has no confidence in either of them . 
Half his schemes he keeps from them the other half he tells them part of . 
He's for ever afraid that the Syndicate of which he's the head will fall to pieces and become another Syndicate of which he won't be head . 
It all makes him an unhappy , restless little beast but it helped me to day . 
Oh , yes , it was locked . 
But hadn't I been carrying the key to it every minute for the last forty eight hours ? There must be a mine of stuff in that desk of Tausig's , Mag . 
The touch of every paper in it is slimy with some dirty trick , some bad secret , some mean action . 
And neither will Nancy Olden , Miss Monahan . 
She grabbed that precious paper with a gasp of delight and closed the desk . 
But she bungled a bit there , for Mason lifted his head and blinked dazedly at her for a moment , recognized her and shook his head . 
No work to day , he said . 
I'll just look over what we've done , Mr. Mason , she answered cheerfully . 
His poor head went down again with a bob , and she caught up the type written sheets of Obermuller's play . 
And , Maggie darlin' , it was a wonderful volcano , that ones that last one , for it worked both ways . 
It paid up for what I haven't done this past year and what I'll never do again in the years to come . 
It made up to me for all I've missed and all I'm going to miss . 
It was a reward of demerit for not being respectable , and a preventive of further sins . 
Oh , it was such a volcano as never was . 
It was a drink and a blue ribbon in one . 
It was a bang up end and a bully beginning . 
It was It was Tausig coming in as I was going out . 
Suddenly I realized that , but I was in such a mad whirl of excitement that I almost ran over the little fellow before I could stop myself . 
Phew ! What a whirlwind you are ! he cried . 
Where are you going ? Oh , good morning , Mr. Tausig , I said sweetly . 
I never dreamed you'd be down so early in the morning . 
What're you doing with the paper ? he demanded suspiciously . 
I could have beaten Nancy Olden in that minute for not having sense enough to hide that precious agreement , instead of carrying it rolled up in her hand . 
Just taking it home to go over it , I said carelessly , trying to pass him . 
But he barred my way . 
Where's Mason ? he asked . 
Poor Mason ! I said . 
Drunk again ? I nodded . 
How to get away ! That settles his hash . 
Out he goes to day . 
It seems to me you're in a deuce of a hurry , he added , as I tried to get out again . 
Come in I want to talk something over with you . 
Not this morning , I said saucily . 
I've got an engagement to lunch , and I want to go over this stuff for Mason before one . 
Who with , now ? My chin shot up in the air . 
He laughed , that cold , noiseless little laugh of his . 
But suppose I want you to come to lunch with me ? Oh , thank you , Mr. Tausig . 
But how could I break my engagement with With Braun ? How did you guess it ? I laughed . 
There's no keeping anything from you . 
He was immensely satisfied with his little self . 
I know him that old rascal , he said slowly . 
I say , Olden , just do break that engagement with Braun . 
But do eh ? Finish your work here and we'll go off together , us two , at twelve thirty , and leave him cooling his heels here when he comes . 
He rubbed his hands gleefully . 
Listen let me hurry home now and I'll throw Braun over and be back here to meet you at twelve thirty . 
He pursed up his thin little lips and shook his head . 
But I slipped past him in that minute and got out into the street . 
At twelve thirty , I called back as I hurried off . 
I got around the corner in a jiffy . 
Oh , I could hardly walk , Mag ! I wanted to fly and dance and skip . 
I did , all right . 
She was saying to me as she kicked out her soft , heelless little boot Nancy Olden , I choose you . 
Nancy Olden , I love you . 
Nancy Olden , I dare you not to love me . 
Nancy Olden , I defy you not to laugh back at me ! Where in the world she dropped from , heaven knows . 
The organ grinder picked up the shafts of his wagon and trundled it away . 
The piccaninnies melted like magic . 
But that gay little flirt , about a year and a half old , just held on to my finger and gabbled poetry . 
I didn't realize just then that she was a lost , strayed or stolen . 
I expected every moment some nurse or conceited mamma to appear and drag her away from me . 
I like 'em a little bit dirty . 
You're a mouse , I gurgled down at her . 
You're a And suddenly I heard a cry and rush behind me . 
It was a false alarm just a long legged girl of twelve rushing round the corner , followed by a lot of others . 
She gave a crow of delight and came bowling after me . 
I stooped and picked her up in my arms , throwing her up in the air to hear her crow and feel her come down again . 
Mouse , I said , we'll just have a little trip together . 
The nurse that'd lose you deserves to worry till you're found . 
The mother that's lucky enough to own you will be benefited hereafter by a sharp scare on your account just now . 
On the other side I set her down . 
I was greedy of every moment that I had her . 
But I wanted to get some change ready before climbing up the steps to the L station . 
She clutched my dress as we stood there a minute in a perfectly irresistible way . 
I know now why men marry baby women it's to feel that delicious , helpless clutch of weak fingers the clutch of dependence , of trust , of appeal . 
I looked down at her with that same silly adoration I've seen on Molly's face for her poor , lacking , twisted boy . 
At least , I did in the beginning . 
But gradually the expression of my face must have changed for all at once I discovered what had been done to me . 
Yes , Maggie Monahan , clean gone ! My pocket had been as neatly picked as I myself well , never mind , as what . 
I threw back my head and laughed aloud . 
Nance Olden , the great doer up , had been done up so cleverly , so surely , so prettily , that she hadn't had an inkling of it . 
I wished I could get a glimpse of the clever girl that did it . 
It was the baby , of course , that decided me . 
You can't be very enterprising when you're carrying a pink lump of sweetness that's all a smile at the moment , but may get all a tear the next . 
It's you for the nearest police station , you young tough ! I said , squeezing her . 
I can't take you home now and show you to Mag . 
But she giggled and gurgled back at me , the abandoned thing , as though the police station was just the properest place for a young lady of her years . 
It was not so very near , either , that station . 
My arm ached when I got there from carrying her , but my heart ached , too , to leave her . 
I told the matron how and where the little thing had picked me up . 
At first she wouldn't leave me , but the fickle little thing a glass of milk transferred all her smiles and wiles to the matron . 
Then we both went over her clothes to find a name or an initial or a laundry mark . 
The matron offered me a glass of milk , too , but I was in a hurry to be gone . 
I knew that voice all right , and I knew that I had to make a decision quick . 
I threw the whole thing into the lap of Fate . 
And when I opened the door and faced him I was smiling . 
Oh , yes , it was Tausig . 
He started as though he couldn't believe his eyes when he saw me . 
The Lord hath delivered mine enemy into my hand , shone in his evil little face . 
Why , Mr. Tausig , I cried , before he could get his breath . 
How odd to meet you here ! Did you find a baby , too ? Did I find He glared at me . 
I find you that's enough . 
Now But the luncheon was to be at twelve thirty , I laughed . 
And I haven't changed my dress yet . 
You'll change it all right for something not so becoming if you don't shell out that paper . 
Paper ? Yes , paper . 
Look here , if you give it back to me this minute now I'll not prosecute you for for For the sake of my reputation ? I suggested softly . 
He looked doubtfully at me , mistrusting the amiable deference of my manner . 
That would be awfully good of you , I murmured . 
He did not answer , but watched me as though he wasn't sure which way I'd jump the next moment . 
I wonder what could induce you to be so forgiving , I went on musingly . 
What sort of paper is this you miss ? It must be valuable Yes , it's valuable all right . 
Come on , now ! Quit your fooling and get down to business . 
I'm going to have that paper . 
Do you know , Mr. Tausig , I said impulsively , if I were you , and anybody had stolen a valuable paper from me , I'd have him arrested . 
Mad ? Oh , he was hopping ! A German swear word burst from him . 
I don't know what it meant , but I can imagine . 
Look here , I give you one more chance , he squeaked if you don't What'll you do ? I was sure I had him . 
I was sure , from the very whisper in which he had spoken , that the last thing in the world he wanted was to have that agreement made public by my arrest . 
But I tripped up on one thing . 
I didn't know there was a middle way for a man with money . 
Nance Olden , he said aloud now , I charge you with stealing a valuable private paper of mine from my desk . 
Here , Sergeant ! I hadn't particularly noticed the Sergeant standing at the other door with his back to us . 
But from the way he came at Tausig's call I knew he'd had a private talk with him , and I knew he'd found the middle way . 
This girl's taken a paper of mine . 
I want her searched , Tausig cried . 
Do you mean , I said , that you'll sign your name to such a charge against me ? He didn't answer . 
He had pulled the Sergeant down and was whispering in his ear . 
I knew what that meant . 
It meant a special pull and a special way of doing things and You'll do well , my girl , to give up Mr. Tausig's property to him , the Sergeant said stiffly . 
But what have I got that belongs to him ? I demanded . 
He grinned and shrugged his big shoulders . 
We've a way of finding out , you know , here . 
I had a bad minute there , but it didn't last it wasn't the matron I'd brought the baby to . 
You'll take this girl into the other room and search her thoroughly . 
The thing we're looking for The Sergeant turned to Tausig . 
A small paper , he said eagerly . 
A a contract just a single sheet of legal cap paper it was type written and signed by myself and some other gentlemen , and folded twice . 
The woman looked at me . 
I knew that kind of look I'd seen it at the Cruelty . 
I'll not make it a bit harder . 
This thing's all a mistake . 
I'll come back , Mr. Tausig , to receive your apology , but you can hardly expect me to go to lunch after this . 
He growled a wrathful , resenting mouthful . 
But he looked a bit puzzled just the same . 
Me ? Oh , I was sweet amiability personified with the woman and with the Sergeant , who began to back water furiously . 
Bamboozled the woman ? Not a bit of it you can't deceive women with mouths and eyes like that . 
And now it was up to Nance to make good . 
I didn't know just how far I might go with her . 
She knew the paper wasn't on me , and I could see she was disposed to believe I was as nice as she'd have liked me to be . 
Well , good by , I said , putting out my hand . 
It's been disagreeable but I'm obliged to you for why , where's my purse ! We must have left it And I turned to go back into the room where I'd undressed . 
The words came clear and cold and positive . 
Her tone was like an icicle down my back . 
I didn't have any ! I exclaimed . 
Why , I certainly You certainly had no purse , for I should have seen it and searched it if you had . 
Now , what do you think of a woman like that ? Nancy Olden , I said to myself , more in sorrow than in anger , you've met your match right here . 
When a woman knows a fact and states it with such quiet conviction , without the least unnecessary emphasis and not a superfluous word , 'ware that woman . 
There's only one game to play to let you hang round here a bit longer and find out what's become of the baby . 
Play it ! I looked at her with respect it was both real and feigned . 
Of course , you must be right , I said humbly . 
If I go with you there's no reason why you should not look . 
Oh , Mag , it was hard lines looking . 
Why ? Why , because the place was so bare and so small . 
There were so few things to move and it took such a short time , in spite of all I could do and pretend to do , that I was in despair . 
You must be right , I said at length , looking woefully up at her . 
Yes I knew I was , she said steadily . 
I must have lost it . 
There was no hope there . 
I'll lend you a nickel to get home , if you'll leave me your address , she said after a moment . 
Oh , that admirable woman ! She ought to be ruling empires instead of searching thieves . 
Look at the balance of her , Mag . 
My best acting hadn't shaken her . 
She hadn't that fatal curiosity to understand motives that wrecks so many who deal with we'll call them the temporarily un straight . 
She was satisfied just not to let me get ahead of her in the least particular . 
Oh , I did admire her but I'd have been more enthusiastic about it if I could have seen my way clear to the baby and the paper . 
I took the nickel and thanked her , but effusiveness left her unmoved . 
A wholesome , blue gowned rock with a neat , full bibbed white apron that's what she was ! And still I lingered . 
Fancy Nance Olden just heartbroken at being compelled to leave a police station ! But there was nothing for it . 
Go , I had to . 
The second time , though , I turned so happy I could not keep the tremor out of my voice . 
I thought you had gone long ago , she said . 
Oh , we were friends , we two ! We'd chummed over a baby , which for women is like what taking a drink together is for men . 
The admirable dragon in the blue dress didn't waver a bit because her superior spoke pleasantly to me . 
She only watched and listened . 
Which puts you in a difficult position when your name's Nance Olden you have to tell the truth . 
I've been detained , I said with dignity , against my wish . 
I nodded and caught up my skirt . 
Oh ! I paused just as the admirable dragon was closing the door on me . 
Is the baby asleep ? I wonder if I might see her once more . 
My heart was beating like an engine gone mad , in spite of my careless tone , and there was a buzzing in my ears that deafened me . 
We've sent her with an officer back to the neighborhood where you found her . 
He'll find out where she belongs , no doubt . 
I didn't care where I went . 
Nothing I could think of gave me any comfort . 
I tried to fancy myself coming home to you . 
I tried to see myself going down to tell the whole thing to Obermuller . 
But I couldn't do that . 
There was only one thing I wanted to say to Fred Obermuller , and that thing I couldn't say now . 
But Nance Olden's not the girl to go round long like a molting hen . 
There was only one chance in a hundred , and that was the one I took , of course . 
Back to the Square where you found the baby , Nance ! I cried to myself . 
There's the chance that that admirable dragon has had her suspicions aroused by your connection with the baby , which she hadn't known before , and has already dutifully notified the Sergeant . 
There's the chance that the baby is home by now , and the paper found by her mother will be turned over to her papa and then it's good by to your scheme . 
I blew in the A. D's nickel on a cross town car and got back to the little Square . 
There was another organ grinder there grinding out coon songs , to which other piccaninnies danced . 
But nary a little white bundle of fluff caught hold of my hand . 
I walked that Square till my feet were sore . 
And yet I just couldn't give it up . 
I was hungry enough to . 
The little fruit stand at the entrance had a fascination for me . 
I found myself there time and again , till I got afraid I might actually try to get of with a peach or a bunch of grapes . 
I saw the officer that'd receive me he had blue eyes like the detective that came for me to the Manhattan . 
I saw Mag , guess what I saw ! No , truly what I really saw ? It made me jump to my feet and grab it with a squeal . 
I saw my own purse lying on the gravel almost at my feet , near the little fruit stand that had tempted me . 
Blank empty it was , stripped clean , not a penny left in it , not a paper , not a stamp , not even my key . 
Just the same I was glad to have it . 
It linked me in a way to the place . 
The clever little girl that had stolen it had been here in this park , on this very spot . 
The old fellow who kept it looked up with an inviting smile . 
Lord knows , he needn't have encouraged me to buy if I'd had a penny . 
It was full then or fuller , anyway , I suggested . 
You wouldn't want to get her into trouble that little girl ? he asked cautiously . 
Not I. I myself I was going to say well , you can imagine what I was going to say , and that I didn't say it or anything like it . 
Well there she is , Kitty Wilson , over yonder , he said . 
I gasped , it was so unexpected . 
And I turned to look . 
There on one of the benches sat Kitty Wilson . 
For Kitty that deplorable Kitty had money to burn or what was even more effective at her age , she had goodies to give away . 
Her lap was full of spoils . 
She had a sample of every good thing the fruit stand offered . 
Her cheeks and lips were smeary with candy . 
Her dress was stained with fruit . 
The crumbs of cake lingered still on her chin and apron . 
And Kitty I love a generous thief was treating the gang . 
It helped itself from her abundant lap it munched and gobbled and asked for more . 
It was a riot of a high old time . 
Even the birds were hopping about as near as they dared , picking up the crumbs , and the squirrels had peanuts to throw to the birds . 
And all on Nancy Olden's money ! I laughed till I shook . 
It was good to laugh . 
Nancy Olden isn't accustomed to a long dose of the doleful , and it doesn't agree with her . 
I strolled over to where my guests were banqueting . 
You see , Mag , that's where I shouldn't rank with the A. D. I'm too inquisitive . 
I want to know how the other fellow in the case feels and thinks . 
It isn't enough for me to see him act . 
Goodness knows , she was full enough . 
Her jaws stopped , though , suddenly , as she looked from the empty purse in my outstretched hand to me , and took me in . 
Oh , I know that pause intimately . 
It says Wait a minute , till I get my breath , and I'll know how much you know and just what lie to tell you . 
But she changed her mind when she saw my face . 
You know , Mag , if there's a thing that's fixed in your memory it's the face of the body you've done up . 
The respectables have their rogues' gallery , but we , that is , the light fingered brigade , have got a fools' gallery to correspond to it . 
In which of 'em is my picture ? Now , Margaret , that's mean . 
You know my portrait hangs in both . 
I was bitterly disappointed in that girl , Mag ! I was altogether mistaken in my diagnosis of her . 
Hers is only a physical cleverness , a talented dexterity . 
She had no resource in time of danger but her legs . 
And legs will not carry a grafter half so far as a good , quick tongue and a steady head . 
She halted at a safe distance and glared back at me . 
Her hostility excited the crowd of children her push against me , and the braver ones jeered the things Kitty only looked , while the thrifty ones stooped and gathered up the spoil . 
Tell her I wouldn't harm her , I said to one of her lieutenants . 
She says she won't hurt ye , Kit , the child screamed . 
She dassent , yelled back Kitty , the valiant . 
She knows I'd peach on her about the kid . 
Kid ! What kid ? I cried , all a fire . 
The kid ye swiped this mornin' . 
Yah ! I told the cop what brought her back how ye took her jest as I Kitty ! I cried . 
You treasure ! And with all my might I ran after her . 
Silly ? Of course it was . 
I might have known what the short skirts above those thin legs meant . 
I couldn't come within fifty feet of her . 
I halted , panting , and she paused , too , dancing tantalizingly half a block away . 
I took it off and turned to appeal to the nearest one of the flying body guard that had accompanied us . 
You run on to her and tell her that if she'll show me the house where that baby lives I'll give her this pin . 
He sped on ahead and parleyed with Kit and while they talked I held aloft the little pin so that Kit might see the price . 
I flew up the stairs , leaving my escort behind , and rang the bell . 
It wasn't so terribly swagger a place , which relieved me some . 
I want to see the lady whose baby was lost this morning , I said to the maid that opened the door . 
Who'll I tell her ? Who ? That stumped me . 
Not Nance Olden , late of the Vaudeville , later of the Van Twiller , and latest of the police station . 
Tell her , please , I said firmly , that I'm Miss Murieson , of the X Ray , and that the city editor has sent me here to see her . 
Hooray for the power of the press ! She showed me into a long parlor , and I sat down and waited . 
It was cool and quiet and softly pretty in that long parlor . 
The shades were down , the piano was open , the chairs were low and softly cushioned . 
I leaned back and closed my eyes , exhausted . 
And suddenly Mag ! I felt something that was a cross between a rose leaf and a snowflake touch my hand . 
If it wasn't that delectable baby ! I caught her and lifted her to my lap and hugged the chuckling thing as though that was what I came for . 
Then , in a moment , I remembered the paper and lifted her little white slip . 
It was gone , Mag . 
The under petticoat hadn't a sign of the paper I'd pinned to it . 
My head whirled in that minute . 
The little wretch ! She deserted me and flew to that pretty mother of hers in her long , cool white trailing things , and sat in her arms and mocked at me . 
It was easy enough to begin talking . 
I told her a tale about being a newspaper woman out on a story how I'd run across the baby and all the rest of it . 
It was in that very minute that I noticed the baby's ribbons were pink they had been blue in the morning . 
Of course , I suggested , you've had her clothes changed and Why , yes , of course , said baby's mother . 
And the soiled things she had on the dress with the blue ribbons ? I'll find out , she said . 
She rang for the maid and gave her an order . 
Was it a valuable paper ? she asked . 
Not very , I stammered . 
My tongue was thick with hope and dread . 
Just my notes , you know , but I do need them . 
I couldn't carry the baby easily , so I pinned them on her skirt , thinking thinking The maid came in and dumped a little heap of white before me . 
I fell on my knees . 
Oh , yes , I prayed all right , but I searched , too . 
What I said to that woman I don't know even now . 
I flew out through the hall and down the steps and And there Kitty Wilson corralled me . 
Say , where's that stick pin ? she cried . 
Here ! here , you darling ! I said , pressing it into her hand . 
And , Kitty , whenever you feel like swiping another purse just don't do it . 
Just you come down to the Vaudeville and ask for Nance Olden some day , and I'll tell you why . 
Gee ! said Kitty , impressed . 
Shall shall I call ye a hansom , lady ? Should she ! The blessed inspiration of her ! I got into the wagon and we drove down street to the Vaudeville . 
I burst in past the stage doorkeeper , amazed to see me , and rushed into Fred Obermuller's office . 
There ! I cried , throwing that awful paper on the desk before him . 
Now cinch 'em , Fred Obermuller , as they cinched you . 
It'll be the holiest blackmail that ever oh , and will you pay for the hansom ? XVI . 
I don't remember much about the first part of the lunch . 
I was so hungry I wanted to eat everything in sight , and so happy that I couldn't eat a thing . 
But Mr. O. kept piling the things on my plate , and each time I began to talk he'd say Not now wait till you're rested , and not quite so famished . 
Do I eat as though I was starved ? You you look tired , Nance . 
Well , I said slowly , it's been a hard week . 
It's been hard for me , too harder , I think , than for you . 
It wasn't fair to me to let me think what I did and say what I did . 
I'm so sorry , Nance , and ashamed . 
So ashamed ! You might have told me . 
And have you put your foot down on the whole thing not much ! He laughed . 
He's got such a boyish laugh in spite of his chin and his eye glasses and the bigness of him . 
He filled my glass for me and helped me again to the salad . 
It's a gay , happy , easy world , Maggie darlin' . 
I vow I can't find a dark corner in it not to day . 
None but the swellest place in town was good enough , Obermuller had said , for us to celebrate in . 
The waiters looked queerly at us when we came in me in my dusty shoes and mussed hair and old rig , and Mr. O. in his working togs . 
But do you suppose we cared ? He was smoking and I was pretending to eat fruit when at last I got fairly launched on my story . 
He listened to it all with never a word of interruption . 
Sometimes I thought he was so interested that he couldn't bear to miss a word I said . 
And then again I fancied he wasn't listening at all to me only watching me and listening to something inside of himself . 
He was silent a minute when I got through . 
Then he laid his cigar aside and stretched out his hand to me . 
And the reason , Nance the reason for it all ? I looked up at him . 
I'd never heard him speak like that . 
The reason ? I repeated . 
He had caught my hand . 
Why to down that tiger Trust and beat Tausig . 
And that was all ? Nonsense , Nance Olden , there was another reason . 
There are other tiger trusts . 
Are you going to set up as a lady errant and right all syndicate wrongs ? No , there was another , a bigger reason , Nance . 
I'm going to tell it to you what ! I pulled my hand from his but not before that fat waiter who'd come in without our noticing had got something to grin about . 
Beg pardon , sir , he said . 
This message must be for you , sir . 
It's marked immediate , and no one else Obermuller took it and tore it open . 
He smiled the oddest smile as he read it , and he threw back his head and laughed a full , hearty bellow when he got to the end . 
Read it , Nance , he said , passing it over to me . 
They sent it on from the office . 
If you're the man I take you for you'll drop in this evening at the Van Twiller and bury the hatchet . 
They're good fellows , those two , and smart men , even if they are stubborn as sin . 
Counting on seeing you to night , my dear fellow , I am most cordially , I. M. TAUSIG . 
I dropped the letter and looked over at Obermuller . 
You notice the letter was marked personal ? Obermuller said . 
He was still standing beside me . 
No was it ? I got up , too , and began to pull on my gloves but my fingers shook so I couldn't do a thing with them . 
Oh , yes , it was . 
That's why I showed it to you . 
I clasped my hands helplessly . 
Oh , what could I do , Maggie , with him there and his arms ready for me ! I I should think you'd be afraid , I whispered . 
I didn't dare look at him . 
He caught me to him then . 
Afraid you wouldn't care for an old fellow like me ? he laughed . 
Yes , that's the only fear I had . 
But I lost it , Nancy , Nancy Obermuller , when you flung that paper down before me . 
Maggie , dear I'm writing to you just before dinner while I wait for Fred . 
He's down at the box office looking up advance sales . 
I tell you , Maggie Monahan , we're strictly in it we Obermullers . 
That Broadway hit of mine has preceded me here , and we've got the town , I suspect , in advance . 
But I'm not writing to tell you this . 
I've got something more interesting to tell you , my dear old Cruelty chum . 
I want you to pretend to yourself that you see me , Mag , as I came out of the big Chestnut Street store this afternoon , my arms full of bundles . 
I must be wearing that jolly little , red cloth toque caught up on the side with some of the fur . 
Besides , fashions don't mean so much to you when your husband tells you how becoming but this has nothing to do with the Bishop . 
Nance , you'll never be able to carry all these things and lift your buful train , too . 
And there's never a hansom round when it's snowing and And then I caught sight of the carriage . 
Yes , Maggie , the same fat , low , comfortable , elegant , sober carriage , wide and well kept , with rubber tired wheels . 
And the two heavy horses , fat and elegant and sober , too , and wide and well kept . 
I knew whose it was the minute my eyes lighted on it , and I couldn't I just couldn't resist it . 
The man on the box still wide and well kept was wide awake this time . 
I nodded to him as I slipped in and closed the door after me . 
I'll wait for the Bishop , I said , with a red coated assurance that left him no alternative but to accept the situation respectfully . 
Oh , dear , dear ! It was soft and warm inside as it had been that long , long ago day . 
The seat was wide and roomy . 
The cushions had been done over I resented that but though a different material , they were a still darker plum . 
And instead of Quo Vadis , the Bishop had been reading Resurrection . 
I took it up and glanced over it as I sat there but , you know , Mag , the heavy weight plays never appealed to me . 
I don't go in for the tragic perhaps I saw too much of the real thing when I was little . 
What did he see ? Just a red coated ghost dreaming in the corner of his carriage . 
It made him doubt his eyes his sanity . 
I don't know what he'd have done if that warm red ghost hadn't got tired of dreaming and laughed outright . 
Daddy , I murmured sleepily . 
I fear , Miss , you have made a mistake , he said primly . 
I looked at him steadily . 
You know I haven't , I said gently . 
That took some of the starch out of him , but he eyed me suspiciously . 
Why don't you ask me where I got the coat , Bishop Van Wagenen ? I said , leaning over to him . 
I suppose he'd just that moment remembered my leaving it behind that day at Mrs. Ramsay's . 
Lord bless me ! he cried anxiously . 
You haven't you haven't again No , I haven't . 
Ah , Maggie , dear , it was worth a lot to me to be able to say that no to him . 
It was given to me . 
Guess who gave it to me . 
My husband ! Maggie Monahan , he didn't even blink . 
Perhaps in the Bishop's set husbands are not uncommon , or very likely they don't know what a husband like Fred Obermuller means . 
I congratulate you , my child , or or did it were you Why , I'd never seen Fred Obermuller then , I cried . 
Can't you tell a difference , Bishop ? I pleaded . 
You look you look , my little girl , exactly like the pretty , big eyed , wheedling voiced child I wished to have for my own daughter . 
I caught his hand in both of mine . 
Now , that's like my own , own Bishop ! I cried . 
You see , Bishop Van Wagenen , I began softly , I never had a father and Bless me ! But you told me that day you had mistaken me for for him . 
The baby ! I had forgotten what that old Edward told me that this trusting soul actually still believed all I'd told him . 
What was I to do ? I tell you , Mag , it's no light thing to get accustomed to telling the truth . 
You never know where it'll lead you . 
Here was I just a clever little lie or two and the dear old Bishop would be happy and contented again . 
But no that fatal habit that I've acquired of telling the truth to Fred and you mastered me and I fell . 
I mean a a fib in fact , many of them . 
I I was just it was long ago and I had to make you believe His soft old eyes looked at me unbelieving . 
You don't mean to say you deliberately lied ! Now , that was what I did mean just what I did mean but not in that tone of voice . 
But what could I do ? I just looked at him and nodded . 
Oh , Maggie , I felt so little and so nasty ! I haven't felt like that since I left the Cruelty . 
And I'm not nasty , Maggie , and I'm Fred Obermuller's wife , and And that put a backbone in me again . 
Fred Obermuller's wife just won't let anybody think worse of her than she can help from sheer love and pride in that big , clever husband of hers . 
Surely surely , in your experience you must have met girls that go wrong and then go right for ever and ever , Amen . 
And I'm very right now . 
But but it has been hard for me at times . 
If I had been your daughter you'd have had a heart full of loving care for me . 
But it's all right now . 
You don't know do you ? I'm Nance Olden . 
That made him sit up and stare , I tell you . 
Even the Bishop had heard of Nancy Olden . 
But suddenly , unaccountably , there came a queer , sad look over his face , and his eyes wouldn't meet mine . 
I looked at him puzzled . 
Tell me what it is , I said . 
You evidently forget that you have already told me you are the wife of Mr. Mr. Ober Obermuller . 
Oh , that's all right . 
Of course I am , and he's my manager , and my playwright , and my secretary , and my my dear , dear boy . 
There ! I wasn't laughing at the end of it . 
I never can laugh when I try to tell what Fred is to me . 
But funny ? that won him . 
There ! there ! he said , patting me on the shoulder . 
Forgive me , my dear . 
I am indeed glad to know that you are living happily . 
He had taken my hand and was looking at me over his spectacles in his dear , fatherly old way . 
Tell me now , my dear , is there anything that an old clergyman can do for you ? I have an engagement near here and we may not meet again . 
I can't hope to find you in my carriage many more times . 
You are happy you are living worthily , child ? Pardon me , but the stage Oh , the gentle courtesy of his manner ! I loved his solicitude . 
Father hungry girls like us , Maggie , know how to value a thing like that . 
It's something finer and stronger than these . 
It's the magic taboo of her love for him and his for her that makes them sacred . 
With that to guard them why Yes , yes , he patted my hand softly . 
Still , the old see the dangers of an environment that a young and impulsive woman like you , my dear , might be blind to . 
Your associates My associates ? Oh , you've heard about Beryl Blackburn . 
Well she's she's just Beryl , you know . 
She wasn't made to live any different . 
Some people steal and some drink and some gamble and some . 
Well , Beryl belongs to the last class . 
She doesn't pretend to be better than she is . 
And , just between you and me , Bishop , I've more respect for a girl of that kind than for Grace Weston , whose husband is my leading man , you know . 
Why , she pulls the wool over his eyes and makes him the laughing stock of the company . 
I can't stand her any more than I can Marie Avon , who's never without two strings All at once I stopped . 
Ah , here we are ! he said . 
Good by , then Oh , are you bound for the Cruelty , too ? I asked . 
There's the same prim , official straight up and downness about the brick front . 
The steps don't look so steep now and the building's not so high , perhaps because of a skyscraper or two that've gone up since . 
But it chills your blood , Maggie darlin' , just as it always did , to think what it stands for . 
Oh , it was stiff and uncompromising ! Beryl Blackburn did that for me . 
I had the man bring in the toys I'd got out in the carriage , and I handed them over to the matron , saying They're for the children . 
I want them to have them all and now , please , to do whatever they want with them . 
Who came to my rescue ? Why , the Bishop , like the manly little fellow he is . 
He forgave me even Beryl in that moment . 
It's Nance Olden , ladies , he said , with a dignified little wave of his hand that served for an introduction . 
She begins her Philadelphia engagement to night in And the Greatest of These . 
Oh , I'm used to it now , Maggie , but I do like it . 
All the lady swells buzzed about me , and there Nance stood preening herself and crowing softly till till from among the bunch of millinery one of them stepped up to me . 
She had a big smooth face with plenty of chins . 
She was feeling for her glasses . 
When she got them and hooked them on her nose and got a good look at me why , she just dropped them with a smash upon the desk . 
I looked for a minute from her to the Bishop . 
I remember you very well , Mrs. Ramsay . 
I hope you haven't forgotten me . 
I've often wanted to thank you for your kindness , I said slowly , while she as slowly recovered . 
I think you'll be glad to know that I am thoroughly well cured . 
Shall I tell Mrs. Ramsay how , Bishop ? I put it square up to him . 
And he met it like the little man he is perhaps , too , my bit of charity to the Cruelty children had pleased him . 
I don't think it will be necessary , Miss Olden , he said gently . 
I can do that for you at some future time . 
And I could have hugged him but I didn't dare . 
We had tea there in the Board rooms . 
I was talking away to the matron and the Bishop about the play room I'm going to fit up out of that bare little place upstairs . 
He put his gentle thin old arm about my shoulders for a moment when he saw what was the matter with me . 
Oh , he understands , my Bishop ! And then we turned to go downstairs . 
Oh I want I want to do something for them , I cried . 
Help me to help others like me . 
My dear , he said , very stately and sweet , I'll be proud to be your assistant . 
We looked at each other . 
You've seen two peacocks spread their tails and strut as they pass each other ? Well , the peacock coming up wasn't in it with the one going down . 
Her coat wasn't so fine , nor so heavy , nor so newly , smartly cut . 
Her toque wasn't so big nor so saucy , and the fur on it not to mention that the descending peacock was a brunette and . 
well , Mag , I had my day . 
Miss Evelyn Kingdon paid me back in that minute for all the envy I've spent on that pretty rig of hers . 
But , Mag , Nancy Olden never got haughty that there wasn't a fall waiting for her . 
I lost my breath when the Bishop hailed his wife . 
But her poor , short sighted eyes rested on my hot face without a sign . 
It's an old joke among us , she said pleasantly , about the Bishop's daughter . 
We stood there and chatted , and the Bishop turned away to speak to Mrs. Kingdon . 
Then I seized my chance . 
I've heard , Mrs. Van Wagenen , I said softly and oh , as nicely as I could , of your fondness for lace . 
We are going abroad in the spring , my husband and I , to Malta , among other places . 
Can't I get you a piece there as a souvenir of the Bishop's kindness to me ? Her little lace mittened , parchment like hands clasped and unclasped with an almost childish eagerness . 
Oh , thank you , thank you very much but if you would give the same sum to charity I will , I laughed . 
She couldn't guess how glad I was to do this thing . 
And I'll spend just as much on your lace and be so happy if you'll accept it . 
I promised Henrietta a box for to night , Maggie , and one to Mrs. Kingdon . 
The Dowager told me she'd love to come , though her husband is out of town , unfortunately , she said . 
But you'll come with me , won't you , Bishop ? she said , turning to him . 
And you , Mrs. Van ? The Bishop blushed . 
Was he thinking of Beryl , I wonder . 
But I didn't hear his answer , for it was at that moment that I caught Fred's voice . 
He had told me he was going to call for me . 
But it was anything but a doleful Nance he found and hurried down the snowy steps out to a hansom and off to rehearsal . 
