Barlaam and Ioasaph by St . 
sometime in the th Century A. D. Although the ultimate author is usually referred to as John the Monk , it has been traditionally ascribed to St . 
The text of this edition is based on that published as ST . 
This text is in the PUBLIC DOMAIN in he United States . 
This electronic edition was edited , proofed , and prepared by Douglas B. Killings , November , . 
PREPARER'S NOTE Readers of this work will note some startling similarities between the story of Ioasaph and the traditional Tale of Buddha . 
were eventually recognized by the Roman Catholic Church as Saints , and churches were dedicated in their honor from Portugal to Constantinople . 
It was only after Europeans began to have increased contacts with India that scholars began to notice the similarities between the two sets of stories . 
Modern scholars believe that the Buddha story came to Europe from Arabic , Caucasus , and or Persian sources , all of which were active in trade between the European and Indian worlds . 
DBK SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY ORIGINAL TEXT Woodward , G. R. H. Mattingly St . 
English translation with side by side Greek text . 
The Balavariani A Tale from the Christian East . 
Translation of the Georgian work that probably served as a basis for the Greek text . 
WHEREIN ARE THE LIVES OF THE FAMOUS AND BLESSED BARLAAM AND IOASAPH . 
INTRODUCTION As many as are led by the Spirit of God they are sons of God saith the inspired Apostle . 
I. The country of the Indians , as it is called , is vast and populous , lying far beyond Egypt . 
For being without issue , he took ceaseless thought how he might be rid of this hobble , and be called the father of children , a name greatly coveted by most people . 
Such was the king , and such his mind . 
But when the king heard thereof , he was filled with wrath , and , boiling over with indignation , passed a decree forthwith , compelling all Christians to renounce their religion . 
Thereupon he planned and practised new kinds of torture against them , and threatened new forms of death . 
So throughout all his dominions he sent letters to his rulers and governors ordering penalties against the righteous , and unlawful massacres . 
But chiefly was his displeasure turned against the ranks of the monastic orders , and against them he waged a truceless and unrelenting warfare . 
Hence , of a truth , many of the Faithful were shaken in spirit , and others , unable to endure torture , yielded to his ungodly decrees . 
And so he sent everywhere in search of him , leaving no stone unturned , as the saying is , to find him . 
The king said , And who are these enemies whom thou biddest me turn out of court ? The saintly man answered and said , Anger and Desire . 
But in you who are altogether carnal , having nothing of the Spirit , they are adversaries , and play the part of enemies and foemen . 
For Desire , working in you , stirreth up pleasure , but , when made of none effect , Anger . 
To day therefore let these be banished from thee , and let Wisdom and Righteousness sit to hear and judge that which we say . 
For if thou put Anger and Desire out of court , and in their room bring in Wisdom and Righteousness , I will truthfully tell thee all . 
Then spake the king , Lo I yield to thy request , and will banish out of the assembly both Desire and Anger , and make Wisdom and Righteousness to sit between us . 
So he , that hath never tasted the sweetness of the things that are , will not be able to understand the nature of the things that are not . 
Time was when I also clung thereto myself . 
But the force of that sentence continually goading my heart , stirred my governing power , my mind , to make the better choice . 
But the law of sin , warring against the law of my mind , and binding me , as with iron chains , held me captive to the love of things present . 
Thereupon I perceived and looked , and behold ! all things present are vanity and vexation of spirit , as somewhere in his writings saith Solomon the wise . 
Wherefore also we ourselves were alienated and separated from thee , because thou wert falling into plain and manifest destruction , and wouldst constrain us also to descend into like peril . 
But as long as we were tried in the warfare of this world , we failed in no point of duty . 
Thou thyself will bear me witness that we were never charged with sloth or heedlessness . 
caught by the bait of pleasure , miserably fell from all these blessings . 
So he that once was enviable became a piteous spectacle , and by his misfortune deserving of tears . 
Wherefore he , that had made and fashioned us , looked again with eyes of compassion upon the work of his own hands . 
For I neither fear death , nor desire the present world , having passed judgement on the frailty and vanity thereof . 
For what is there profitable , abiding or stable therein ? Nay , in very existence , great is the misery , great the pain , great and ceaseless the attendant care . 
Of its gladness and enjoyment the yoke fellows are dejection and pain . 
For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh , and the lust of the eyes , and the pride of life . 
And the world passeth away , and the lust thereof , but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever . 
Seeking , then , this good will of God , I have forsaken everything , and joined myself to those who possess the same desire , and seek after the same God . 
Them have I gained for my fathers , my brothers , my friends and mine acquaintances . 
Hence thou hast uttered these vain and ambiguous babblings . 
Had I not promised , at the beginning of our converse , to banish Anger from mid court , I had now given thy body to be burned . 
But since thou hast prevented and tied me down fast by my words , I bear with thine effrontery , by reason of my former friendship with thee . 
Now , arise , and flee for ever from my sight , lest I see thee again and miserably destroy thee . 
Nowhere in that land , they said , had there ever been seen so charming and lovely a babe . 
But chiefly the king stirred them up to emulation . 
Now on his son's birth day feast there came unto the king some five and fifty chosen men , schooled in the star lore of the Chaldaeans . 
These the king called into his presence , and asked them , severally , to tell him the future of the new born babe . 
After long counsel held , they said that he should be mighty in riches and power , and should surpass all that had reigned before him . 
Methinketh also that he will embrace the Christian religion , which thou persecutest , and I trow that he will not be disappointed of his aim and hope . 
But when the king heard thereof , he received the tidings with a heavy heart , and sorrow cut short his joy . 
For he was heedful of the astrologer's warning , and it was this most that he was minded to conceal from his son . 
Such then was the intent and doing of the king , for , 'seeing , he did not see , and hearing , he did not understand . 
And he commanded heralds to scour all the city and all the country , proclaiming that after three days no monk whatsoever should be found therein . 
But and if any were discovered after the set time , they should be delivered to destruction by fire and sword . 
For , said he , these be they that persuade the people to worship the Crucified as God . 
Meanwhile a thing befell , that made the king still more angry and bitter against the monks . 
There was at court a man pre eminent among the rulers , of virtuous life and devout in religion . 
But while working out his own salvation , as best he might , he kept it secret for fear of the king . 
Wherefore certain men , looking enviously on his free converse with the king , studied how they might slander him and this was all their thought . 
On a day , when the king went forth a hunting with his bodyguard , as was his wont , this good man was of the hunting party . 
Our nobleman said unto him , For very charity I will take thee up , and render thee such service as I may . 
But what is this profit which thou saidest that I should receive of thee ? The poor sick man answered , I am a physician of words . 
If ever in speech or converse any wound or damage be found , I will heal it with befitting medicines , that so the evil spread no further . 
The devout man gave no heed to his word , but on account of the commandment , ordered him to be carried home , and grudged him not that tending which he required . 
So he called the man apart and said , to prove him , Friend , thou knowest of all my past dealings with them that are called monks and with all the Christians . 
The enjoyment of the present life , though in seeming it give delight and sweetness , is well thrust from us . 
At the very moment of its being it ceaseth to be , and for our joy repayeth us with sorrow sevenfold . 
For the pleasures of such life are temporary , but its pains eternal while the Christians' labours are temporary , but their pleasure and gain immortal . 
Therefore well befall this good determination of the king ! for right good it is to exchange the corruptible for the eternal . 
The king heard these words and waxed exceeding wroth nevertheless he restrained his anger , and for the season let no word fall . 
But the other , being shrewd and quick of wit , perceived that the king took his word ill , and was craftily sounding him . 
So , on his coming home , he fell into much grief and distress in his perplexity how to conciliate the king and to escape the peril hanging over his own head . 
Yea , quoth he , and if thou wilt I will give thee proof of my skill . 
Arise therefore , and crop thy hair . 
Doff these thy fine garments , and don an hair shirt , and at daybreak present thyself before the king . 
And when he asketh thee , What meaneth this apparel ? answer him , It hath to do with thy communing with me yesterday , O king . 
Our nobleman , approving of the sick man's saying , did as he said . 
When the king saw and heard him , he was delighted , and beyond measure gratified by his devotion towards him . 
He saw that the accusations against his senator were false , and promoted him to more honour and to a greater enjoyment of his confidence . 
Another day , when he was gone a hunting , he espied two monks crossing the desert . 
These he ordered to be apprehended and brought to his chariot . 
Said the king , He that dreadeth menace of death busieth not himself with the purveyante of victuals . 
Well spoken , O king , cried the monks . 
They that dread death have concern how to escape it . 
Therefore , forasmuch the death that thou art bringing upon us proveth but the passage to that everlasting and better life , it is rather to be desired of us than feared . 
The monks answered , Tis not because we dread the death wherewith thou dost threaten us that we flee , but because we pity thee . 
Twas in order that we might not bring on thee greater condemnation , that we were eager to escape . 
Else for ourselves we are never a whit terrified by thy threats . 
At this the king waxed wroth and bade burn them with fire . 
So by fire were these servants of God made perfect , and received the Martyr's crown . 
And the king published a decree that , should any be found leading a monk's life , he should be put to death without trial . 
Thus was there left in that country none of the monastic order , save those that had hid them in mountains and caverns and holes of the earth . 
So much then concerning this matter . 
V. But meanwhile , the king's son , of whom our tale began to tell , never departing from the palace prepared for him , attained to the age of manhood . 
But vain was the hope whereon he stayed , and he was like the archer in the tale that would shoot at the sky . 
He knew , without hearing it , that this was his father's express command . 
Wherefore he determined to learn the secret from some other source . 
There was one of his tutors nearer and dearer to him than the rest , whose devotion he won even further by handsome gifts . 
Now the king his father came oftentimes to see his boy , for he loved him passing well . 
I intend that thou shalt spend all thy days in luxury unbroken , and in all manner joy and pleasaunce . 
I yearn to see all that lieth without these gates . 
He bade them muster in the way troops of folk intuning melodies in every mode , and presenting divers mimic shows , that these might occupy and delight his mind . 
So thus it came to pass that the king's son often went abroad . 
One day , through the negligence of his attendants , he descried two men , the one maimed , and the other blind . 
The prince was seized with astonishment , and , calling the old man near , desired to know the meaning of this strange sight . 
And , said he , what will be his end ? They answered , Naught but death will relieve him . 
When our wise and sagacious young prince saw and heard all this , he sighed from the bottom of his heart . 
Bitter is this life , cried he , and fulfilled of all pain and anguish , if this be so . 
But he longed with an unrestrainable yearning , to meet with the man that might accomplish his heart's desire , and fill his ears with the sound of good tidings . 
He , recollecting their former communications , said , I have told thee already how thy father hath dealt with the wise men and anchorets who spend their lives in such philosophies . 
Some hath he slain , and others he hath wrathfully persecuted , and I wot not whether any of this sort be in this country side . 
Thereat the prince was overwhelmed with woe , and grievously wounded in spirit . 
He was like unto a man that hath lost a great treasure , whose whole heart is occupied in seeking after it . 
Thenceforth he lived in perpetual conflict and distress of mind , and all the pleasures and delights of this world were in his eyes an abomination and a curse . 
There was at that time a certain monk , learned in heavenly things , graced in word and deed , a model follower of every monastic rule . 
Barlaam was this elder's name . 
He , learning by divine revelation the state of the king's son , left the desert and returned to the world . 
Changing his habit , he put on lay attire , and , embarking on ship board , arrived at the seat of the empire of the Indians . 
Disguised as a merchant man , he entered the city , where was the palace of the king's son . 
There he tarried many days , and enquired diligently concerning the prince's affairs , and those that had access to him . 
It maketh the foolish wise and driveth away devils , and without stint furnisheth its possessor with everything that is lovely and desirable . 
The tutor said , Though , to all seeming , thou art a man of staid and steadfast judgment , yet thy words prove thee to be boastful beyond measure . 
Time would fail me to tell thee the full tale of the costly and precious gems and pearls that I have seen . 
But gems , with such power as thou tellest of , I never saw nor heard of yet . 
Nevertheless shew me the stone and if it be as thou affirmest , I immediately bear it to the king's son , from whom thou shalt receive most high honours and rewards . 
But , before I be assured by the certain witness of mine own eyes , I may not carry to my lord and master so swollen a tale about so doubtful a thing . 
But , as thou desiredst to behold it , listen to my words . 
This exceeding precious gem , amongst these its powers and virtues , possesseth this property besides . 
It cannot be seen out of hand , save by one whose eyesight is strong and sound , and his body pure and thoroughly undefiled . 
But of the king's son , I have heard that he leadeth a sober life , and that his eyes are young and fair , and healthy . 
Wherefore to him I make bold to display this treasure . 
Be not thou then negligent herein , nor rob thy master of so wondrous a boon . 
But I am won by thy words , and will not hesitate to make known these things unto my lord the prince . 
So saying , he went in , and , word by word , reported everything to the king's son . 
He , hearing his tutor's words , felt a strange joy and spiritual gladness breathing into his heart , and , like one inspired , bade bring in the man forthwith . 
So when Barlaam was come in , and had in due order wished him Peace ! , the prince bade him be seated . 
Then began Barlaam to discourse with him thus It is not fitting , O prince , that I should say anything falsely or unadvisedly to thine excellent majesty . 
All that hath been signified to thee from me is true and may not be gainsaid . 
And some fell among thorns and the thorns sprung up and choked them but others fell upon good ground , and brought forth fruit an hundredfold . 
Aye , for thy sake I gave diligence and accomplished a long journey , to shew thee things which thou hast never seen , and teach thee things which thou hast never heard . 
But until now I never happened on one that could satisfy me as touching them . 
So if thou knowest any such like thing , conceal it not from me , but declare it . 
When I heard that thou were come from a far country , my spirit rejoiced , and I had good hope of obtaining through thee that which I desire . 
Now the king knew that it was by buffetings of the body and by the sweats of the monastic life that they had thus wasted their miserable flesh . 
So , seeing them , he leapt anon from his chariot , fell on the ground , and did obeisance . 
Then rising , he embraced and greeted them tenderly . 
But his noblemen and counsellors took offence thereat , deeming that their sovran had disgraced his kingly honour . 
But not daring to reprove him to the face , they bade the king's own brother tell the king not thus to insult the majesty of his crown . 
When he had told the king thereof , and had upbraided him for his untimely humility , the king gave his brother an answer which he failed to understand . 
At day break , robed in black and garments of mourning , with wife and children , he went to the palace gate , weeping and lamenting . 
Thus he comforted his brother and sent him home with a gift . 
Then he ordered four wooden caskets to be made . 
Two of these he covered over all with gold , and , placing dead men's mouldering bones therein , secured them with golden clasps . 
The other two he smeared over with pitch and tar , but filled them with costly stones and precious pearls , and all manner of aromatic sweet perfume . 
He bound them fast with cords of hair , and called for the noblemen who had blamed him for his manner of accosting the men by the wayside . 
Before them he set the four caskets , that they might appraise the value of these and those . 
They decided that the golden ones were of greatest value , for , peradventure , they contained kingly diadems and girdles . 
But those , that were be smeared with pitch and tar , were cheap and of paltry worth , said they . 
Whereupon he ordered the golden chests to be opened . 
And when they were thrown open , they gave out a loathsome smell and presented a hideous sight . 
Next , he commanded the pitched and tarred caskets also to be opened , and delighted the company with the beauty and sweet savour of their stores . 
Thus he shamed his courtiers , and taught them not to be deceived by outward appearances , but to give heed to the things of the soul . 
First , he made the heavenly and invisible powers , countless multitudes , immaterial and bodiless , ministering spirits of the majesty of God . 
He spake the word and these all were made he commanded and they were created . 
Him he endowed with free will and immortality and appointed sovran over everything upon earth and from man he made woman , to be an helpmeet of like nature for him . 
God banished him as unworthy of the glory above . 
These were called Devils , as being deluders and deceivers . 
So he took the serpent for the workshop of his own guile . 
Thenceforth the devil waxed strong and boastful through his victory and , as the race of man multiplied , he prompted them in all manner of wickedness . 
So , wishing to cut short the growth of sin , God brought a deluge on the earth , and destroyed every living soul . 
But one single righteous man did God find in that generation and him , with wife and children , he saved alive in an Ark , and set him utterly desolate on earth . 
Some deemed that everything moved by mere chance , and taught that there was no Providence , since there was no master to govern . 
Others brought in fate , and committed everything to the stars at birth . 
Others assigned worship to beasts , creeping and four footed things , proving themselves more beastly than the things that they worshipped . 
Whence men , taking occasion by the gods themselves , took heart to pollute themselves in all manner of uncleanness . 
So an horrible darkness overspread our race in those times , and there was none that did understand and seek after God . 
Now in that generation one Abraham alone was found strong in his spiritual senses and by contemplation of Creation he recognized the Creator . 
When he considered heaven , earth and sea , the sun , moon and the like , he marvelled at their harmonious ordering . 
But therein he recognized the true God , and understood him to be the maker and sustainer of the whole . 
, but by certain manifestations in material forms , as he alone can , and he planted in Abraham more perfect knowledge he magnified him and made him his own servant . 
Which Abraham in turn handed down to his children his own righteousness , and taught them to know the true God . 
through the Red Sea upon dry land , the waters dividing and making a wall on the right hand and a wall on the left . 
But when Pharaoh and the Egyptians pursued and went in after them , the waters returned and utterly destroyed them . 
By such wondrous deeds , he brought them into a certain goodly land , the which he had promised aforetime to Abraham the patriarch , that he would give it unto his seed . 
He , being made of like passions with ourselves in all things , yet without sin , took our infirmities and bare our sicknesses . 
When he had lived thirty years among men , he was baptized in the river Jordan by John , an holy man , and great above all the prophets . 
, in their madness forgetting all , condemned him to death , having seized one of the Twelve to betray him . 
But when they had done him much despite , at the last they condemned him to the Cross . 
He descended into hell , and having harrowed it , he delivered thence souls that had been imprisoned therein for ages long . 
After forty days he ascended into heaven , and sitteth at the right hand of the Father . 
And he shall come again to judge the quick and the dead , and to reward every man according to his works . 
So they gave light to the people that wandered in darkness , and abolished the superstitious error of idolatry . 
When the king's son had heard these words , there flashed a light upon his soul . 
Tell me if my guess be true or if thou knowest aught better than that which thou hast spoken , delay not to declare it to me . 
In trumpet tones they proclaimed it , and all looked forward to the salvation that should be this they desired to see , but saw it not . 
But this latest generation was counted worthy to receive salvation . 
Wherefore he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved but he that believeth not shall be damned . 
Said Ioasaph , All that thou hast told me I believe without question , and him whom thou declarest I glorify as God . 
Only make all plain to me , and teach me clearly what I must do . 
But especially go on to tell me what is that Baptism which thou sayest that the Faithful receive . 
But without Baptism it is impossible to attain to that good hope , even though a man be more pious than piety itself . 
Thus questioned he and Barlaam answered thus The good hope , whereof I spake , is that of the kingdom of Heaven . 
So in this heavenly Gospel , written by the Spirit of God , is recorded the history of his Incarnation , his manifestation , his miracles and acts . 
But since we were sentenced to death , we die all and it is not possible for this cup to pass any man by . 
Now death is the separation of the soul from the body . 
For as a man hath lived here , so shall he receive reward there . 
Then , at the voice of the archangel , and at the trump of God , shall the dead arise and stand before his awful throne . 
Now the Resurrection is the re uniting of soul and body . 
So that very body , which decayeth and perisheth , shall arise incorruptible . 
If thou wilt but consider how many things God hath made out of nothing , this proof shall suffice thee . 
He took earth and made man , though earth was not man before . 
There can no advocate , no persuasive words , no false excuse , no mightiness of riches , no pomp of rank , no lavishment of bribes , avail to pervert righteous judgement . 
For he , the uncorrupt and truthful Judge , shall weigh everything in the balance of justice , every act , word and thought . 
For , after the passing of that terrible sentence , all things shall abide immutable and unchangeable . 
Then shall the Lord call the righteous Blessed , and shall lead them into his everlasting kingdom . 
God is not the God of the dead but of the living . 
For as the tares are gathered and burned in the fire , so shall it be in the end of this age . 
Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father . 
Thus spake he and added this thereto , Who hath ears to hear , let him hear . 
In such words and many more did the Lord make manifest the resurrection of our bodies , and confirm his words in deed , by raising many that were dead . 
For other men also were raised from the dead , but died once more , and might not yet attain to the likeness of the future true resurrection . 
But he alone was the leader of that resurrection , the first to be raised to the resurrection immortal . 
For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received , how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures . 
And if Christ be not raised , your faith is vain , ye are yet in your sins . 
If in this life only we have hope in Christ , we are of all men most miserable . 
But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept . 
For since by man came death , by man came also the resurrection of the dead . 
For as in Adam all die , even so in Christ shall all be made alive . 
And after a little while , For this corruptible must put on incorruption , and this mortal must put on immortality . 
Beyond all question , therefore , there shall be a resurrection of the dead , and this we believe undoubtingly . 
And he shall set the sheep on his right hand , but the goats on the left . 
Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand , Come ye blessed of my Father , inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world . 
Lo , by all these examples and many more he proveth that the rewards of good works are certain and sure . 
Further , that punishments are in store for the bad , he foretold by parables strange and wonderful , which he , the Well of Wisdom most wisely put forth . 
To him said Abraham , Thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things , and likewise Lazarus his evil things , but now he is comforted , and thou art tormented . 
And otherwhere he likeneth the kingdom of heaven to a certain king which made a marriage feast for his son and thereby he declared future happiness and splendour . 
For as he was wont to speak to humble and earthly minded men , he would draw his parables from homely and familiar things . 
Not that he meant that marriages and feasts exist in that world but in condescension to men's grossness , he employed these names when he would make known to them the future . 
So , as he telleth , the king with high proclamation called all to come to the marriage to take their fill of his wondrous store of good things . 
Now when these had , of their own choice , absented themselves from this joyous merriment , others were bidden thereto , and the wedding was furnished with guests . 
Then Said the king to the servants , Bind him hand and foot , and take him away , and cast him into outer darkness there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth . 
Now they who made excuses and paid no heed to the call are they that hasten not to the faith of Christ , but continue in idolatry or heresy . 
And he put forth yet another parable , in harmony with this , in his picture of the Ten Virgins , five of whom were wise , and five were foolish . 
They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them , but the wise took oil . 
By the oil he signifieth the acquiring of good works . 
And at midnight , he saith , there was a cry made , Behold the bridegroom cometh , go ye out to meet him . 
By midnight he denoteth the uncertainty of that time . 
Then all those virgins arose . 
They that were ready went forth to meet the bridegroom and went in with him to the marriage , and the door was shut . 
, seeing that their lamps were going out , went forth to buy oil . 
Afterward they drew nigh , the door being now shut , and cried , saying , Lord , Lord , open to us . 
But he answered and said , Verily I say unto you , I know you not . 
And again he saith , But the very hairs of your head are numbered , by the hairs meaning the smallest and slightest phantasy or thought . 
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight but all things are naked and laid bare unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do . 
These things also were proclaimed with wondrous clearness by the prophets of old time , illumined by the grace of the Spirit . 
For Esay saith , I know their works and their thoughts , and will repay them . 
Behold , I come to gather all nations and all tongues and they shall come and see my glory . 
And the heaven shall be new , and the earth , which I make before me . 
And all flesh shall come to worship before me , saith the Lord . 
And again he saith concerning that day , And the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll , and all the stars shall fall down as leaves from the vine . 
For behold , the day of the Lord cometh , cruel with wrath and fierce anger , to lay the whole world desolate and to destroy the sinners out of it . 
And I will cause the arrogancy of the sinners to cease , and will lay low the haughtiness of the proud . 
In tune therewith saith also another prophet , The great day of the Lord is near , and hasteth greatly . 
The bitter and austere voice of the day of the Lord hath been appointed . 
And I will bring distress upon the wicked , and they shall walk like blind men , because they have sinned against the Lord . 
He shall call the heaven from above , and the earth , that he may judge his people . 
And again he saith , Arise , O God , judge thou the earth , because the fierceness of man shall turn to thy praise . 
And thou shalt reward every man according to his works . 
And many other such things have been spoken by the Psalmist , and all the Prophets inspired by the Holy Ghost , concerning the judgement and the recompense to come . 
For to you is the promise , and to your children , and to all that are afar off even as many as the Lord our God shall call . 
Wherefore before all things approach thou him who hath called thee , and from him shalt thou receive the true knowledge of things visible and invisible . 
For thus too spake the same Apostle Peter to a certain disciple . 
'Idol worshippers , said he , are like a fowler who caught a tiny bird , called nightingale . 
Now free me of my fetters , and I will give thee three precepts , by the keeping of which thou shalt be greatly benefited all thy life long . 
He , astonied at her speech , promised that , if he heard anything new from her , he would quickly free her from her captivity . 
The nightingale turned towards our friend and said , Never try to attain to the unattainable never regret the thing past and gone and never believe the word that passeth belief . 
Keep these three precepts , and may it be well with thee . 
The man , admiring the lucidity and sense of her words , freed the bird from her captivity , and sent her forth aloft . 
When the fowler heard thereof , he was distraught with grief , regretting that the bird had escaped out of his hands . 
And he would fain have taken her again . 
Come hither , said he , into my house I will make thee right welcome , and send thee forth with honour . 
But the nightingale said unto him , Now I know thee to be a mighty fool . 
Though thou didst receive my words readily and gladly , thou hast gained no profit thereby . 
I bade thee never regret the thing past and gone and behold thou art distraught with grief because I have escaped out of thy hands there thou regrettest a thing past and gone . 
I charged thee not to try to attain to the unattainable , and thou triest to catch me , though thou canst not attain to my path . 
They bear them upon the shoulders , and go forward . 
And if they set them in their place , they stand therein they shall not remove . 
Yea , one shall cry unto them , yet call they not answer him , nor save him out of his trouble . 
Wherefore be ye ashamed with everlasting shame , ye that trust in graven images , that say to the molten images , Ye are our gods . 
For they sacrificed , he saith , unto devils , and not to God to gods whom their fathers knew not . 
There came new and fresh gods because it is a froward generation , and there is no faith in them . 
Of these each person , severally , is God . 
As the Father is , so also is the Son , and as the Son , so also the Holy Ghost . 
And there is one God in three , one nature , one kingdom , one power , one glory , one substance , distinct in persons , and so only distinct . 
And he is one very and only God , known in the Trinity for of him and through him , and unto him are all things . 
If then thou shalt believe and be baptized , thou shalt be saved but if thou believe not , thou shalt be damned . 
And thy body will be imprisoned in a tiny grave , left in utter loneliness , and bereft of all company of kith and kin . 
And all the pleasant things of the world shall perish and instead of the beauty and fragrance of to day , thou shalt be encompassed with horror and the stink of corruption . 
These , and far worse haps than these , shall be thy destiny , if thou continue in unbelief . 
When thou sittest down , thou shall not be afraid of sudden fear . 
When thou liest down , sweet shall be thy sleep . 
For joy and praise shall crown thy head , and gladness shall befall thee there , where pain and sorrow and wailing shall flee away . 
Put me in remembrance let us plead together declare thou thy sins that thou mayst be justified . 
And indeed , even before thy coming hither , my soul was , in uncertain fashion , doubtful of it . 
So I am ready anon to receive baptism , and to observe all thy sayings . 
For , saith the Apostle , Walk in the Spirit , and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh . 
These , even as steps and ladders that support one another and are clinched together , conduct the soul to heaven . 
Lo , to these we are commanded to cleave after baptism , and to abstain from their contraries . 
he walketh through dry places , seeking rest , and finding none . 
But enduring not for long to wander homeless and hearthless , he saith , I will return to my house whence I came out . 
Now he commanded men to be poor in spirit , and such he calleth blessed and worthy of the kingdom of heaven . 
And he also saith , 'Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her , hath committed adultery with her in his heart . 
And hereby he calleth the defilement and consent of the affection adultery . 
Furthermore , where the law forbade a man to forswear himself , Christ commanded him to swear not at all beyond Yea and Nay . 
There we read , Eye for eye and tooth for tooth' here , Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek , turn to him the other also . 
And if any man will sue thee at the law , and take away thy coat , let him have thy cloke also . 
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile , go with him twain . 
Give to him that asketh time , and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away . 
Judge not , that ye be not judged . 
Forgive , and ye shall be forgiven . 
He therefore that gave life and body will assuredly give food and raiment he that feedeth the fowls of the air and arrayeth with such beauty the lilies of the field . 
But , seek ye first , saith Christ , the kingdom of God , and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you . 
Take therefore no thought for the morrow for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself . 
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you , do ye even so to them . 
Enter ye in at the strait gate for wide is the gate , and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction , and many there be which go in thereat . 
Strait and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life and few there be that find it . 
Not every one that saith unto me , Lord , Lord , shall enter into the kingdom of heaven but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven . 
He that oveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me and he that loveth son and daughter more than me is not worthy of me . 
And he that taketh not up his cross and followeth after me , is not worthy of me . 
But , like a skilful leech , he hath mixed for our unsteady and sin loving heart the potion of repentance , prescribing this for the remission of sins . 
but , by means of painful repentance , hot tears , toils and sweats , there is a purifying and pardoning of our offences through the tender mercy of our God . 
So our offences , being subject to measure and number , cannot overcome the immeasurable compassion , and innumerable mercies of God . 
In many places of Scripture we are taught the power of repentance , and especially by the precepts and parables of our Lord Jesus Christ . 
For it saith , From that time began Jesus to preach and to say , Repent ye , for the kingdom of heaven is at hand . 
And he arose , and came to his father . 
Lo , this parable , that Jesus spake to us , concerneth such as turn again from sin , and fall at his feet in repentance . 
Likewise , saith the Saviour , joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth , more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance . 
Then he straightway remembered the Lord's words , and went out and wept bitterly , and with those hot tears made good his defeat , and transferred the victory to his own side . 
So the chief became chief again , as he had before been chosen teacher of the whole world , being now become its pattern of penitence . 
So from all these and many other examples beyond count we learn the virtue of tears and repentance . 
Thus therefore it is , and thus we believe . 
For to fall becometh not the athlete , since many have fallen and been unable to rise . 
And for this cause it is parlous to fall into any kind of sinful affection whatsoever . 
For , Turn ye unto me , and I will turn unto you , saith the Lord God . 
Barlaam answered , Well said , my lord and king . 
Ye cannot serve God and Mammon . 
So also writeth the beloved Evangelist and Divine in his Epistle , thus saying , Love not the world , neither the things that are in the world . 
If any man love the world , the love of the Father is not in him . 
And the world passeth away , and the lust thereof but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever . 
Whence some of them also thought fit to receive yet another baptism I mean that which is by blood and martyrdom . 
Thus they gained the prizes of righteousness , and became the companions of Angels , and fellow heirs with Christ . 
Their virtue shone so bright that their sound went out into all lands , and the splendour of their good deeds flashed like lightning into the ends of the earth . 
And it were a long tale to tell one by one their deeds of prowess . 
For even of those common and necessary meats they took only so much as was sufficient to sustain life . 
But envy and pride , the evils most prone to follow good works , had no place amongst them . 
He that was weaker in ascetic exercises entertained no thought of malice against him of brighter example . 
Others again persuaded themselves that they had not done even the things which they were commanded to do , but that the things left undone outnumbered the things already well done . 
Again , he that was far behind in austerity , perchance through bodily weakness , would disparage and blame himself , attributing his failure to slothfulness of mind rather than to natural frailty . 
So each excelled each , and all excelled all in this sweet reasonableness . 
Whence all that do thus are doubly defrauded they waste their body , and receive no reward . 
But they who yearn for glory above , and strive thereafter , despise all earthly and human glory . 
Then turn they again , each to his own home , eagerly storing the honey of virtue in the cells of their hearts , and husbanding sweet fruits worthy of the heavenly board . 
Others again spend their life in monasteries . 
These gather in multitudes in one spot , and range themselves under one superior and president , the best of their number , slaying all self will with the sword of obedience . 
This is retirement , a voluntary hatred of the world , and denial of nature by desire of things above nature . 
By this number he limiteth not the gathering together in his name , but by two or three' signifieth that the number is indefinite . 
Wherefore God hath graced them with miracles , signs and various virtues and made the voice of their marvellous life to be sounded forth to the ends of the world . 
After him many fought the like fight and won like crowns and guerdons . 
Blessed , yea , thrice blessed , are they that have loved God , and , for his love's sake , have counted every thing as nothing worth . 
By their purity of heart they became a tabernacle of the Holy Ghost , as it is written , I will dwell in them and walk in them . 
They became passionless as the Angels , and now they weave the dance in their fellowship , whose lives also they imitated . 
And those again whom it exalteth , it quickly abaseth to the utmost wretchedness , making them a foot stool and a laughing stock for their enemies . 
Such are its charms , such its bounties . 
It maketh covenants with fools and fair false promises , only that it may allure them to itself . 
But , as they have dealt treacherously , it proveth itself treacherous and false in fulfilling none of its pledges . 
To day it tickleth their gullet with pleasant dainties to morrow it maketh them nought but a gobbet for their enemies . 
To day it maketh a man a king to morrow it delivereth him into bitter servitude . 
To day its thrall is fattening on a thousand good things to morrow he is a beggar , and drudge of drudges . 
To day it placeth on his head a crown of glory to morrow it dasheth his face upon the ground . 
To day it adorneth his neck with brilliant badges of dignity to morrow it humbleth him with a collar of iron . 
For a little while it causeth him to be the desire of all men but after a time it maketh him their hate and abomination . 
To day it gladdeneth him but to morrow it weareth him to a shadow with lamentations and wailings . 
What is the end thereof , thou shalt hear . 
Ruthlessly it bringeth its former lovers to dwell in hell . 
Such is ever its mind , such its purposes . 
It lamenteth not its departed , nor pitieth the survivor . 
There he established some sort of foot hold and thought himself from that moment in peace and safety . 
Again looking closely at the ledge whereon his feet rested , he discerned four heads of asps projecting from the wall whereon he was perched . 
Then he lift up his eyes and saw that from the branches of the tree there dropped a little honey . 
Yea , he forgat , without care , all those sights of awe and terror , and his whole mind hung on the sweetness of that tiny drop of honey . 
This is the likeness of those who cleave to the deceitfulness of this present life , the interpretation whereof I will declare to thee anon . 
The unicorn is the type of death , ever in eager pursuit to overtake the race of Adam . 
The pit is the world , full of all manner of ills and deadly snares . 
The fourfold asps signify the structure of man's body upon four treacherous and unstable elements which , being disordered and disturbed , bring that body to destruction . 
Furthermore , the fiery cruel dragon betokeneth the maw of hell that is hungry to receive those who choose present pleasures rather than future blessings . 
The dropping of honey denoteth the sweetness of the delights of the world , whereby it deceiveth its own friends , nor suffereth them to take timely thought for their salvation . 
On the first two of these he was extravagantly lavish of his honours , and clave passionately to their love , fighting to the death and deliberately hazarding his life for their sakes . 
Being in a great strait , this debtor sought for a helper , able to take his part in this terrible reckoning with the king . 
So he ran to his first and truest friend of all , and said , Thou wottest , friend , that I ever jeopardied my life for thy sake . 
Now to day I require help in a necessity that presseth me sore . 
Other friends I have , with whom I must needs make merry to day , and so win their friendship for the time to come . 
But , see , I present thee with two ragged garments , that thou mayest have them on the way whereon thou goest , though they will do thee no manner of good . 
Further help from me thou mayest expect none . 
To day I have fallen into tribulation and sorrow , and need a helping hand . 
To what extent then canst thou share my labour ? Tell me at once . 
Said he , I have on leisure today to share thy troubles . 
I too have fallen among cares and perils , and am myself in tribulation . 
Howbeit , I will go a little way with thee , even if I shall fail to be of service to thee . 
Then will I turn quickly homeward , and busy myself with mine own anxieties . 
At the last he went away to the third friend , whom he had never courted , nor invited to share his happiness . 
Bear no grudge for my past unkindness , and refuse me not . 
The other with a smiling and gracious countenance answered , Assuredly I own thee my very true friend . 
I have not forgotten those slight services of thine and I will repay them to day with interest . 
Fear not therefore , neither be afraid . 
I will go before thee and entreat the king for thee , and will by no means deliver thee into the hands of thine enemies . 
Wherefore be of good courage , dear friend , and fret not thyself . 
This is the grateful and true friend , who beareth in mind those small kindnesses that we have shown him and repayeth the whole with interest . 
Again said Ioasaph , The Lord God prosper thee , O thou Wisest of men ! For thou hast gladdened my soul with thine apt and excellent sayings . 
Wherefore sketch me yet another picture of the vanity of the world , and how a man may pass through it in peace and safety . 
Barlaam took up his parable and said , Hear then a similitude of this matter too . 
In accordance therefore with the unbroken custom of these citizens , a certain man was ordained to the kingship . 
When the appointed year came to an end , the citizens rose against him , and sent him naked into banishment like those that went before him . 
One may see how the race of mankind may never abide before the face of the cruel tyranny of the world . 
This also is called the beginning of wisdom , and perfect wisdom . 
For life is without pain and reproach to those that hold by her , and safe to those who lean upon her as upon the Lord . 
Be ye separate from the vanity of the world , for the fashion thereof quickly passeth away , and behold it shall not be . 
Quoth Barlaam , The sending before thee of money to that eternal home is wrought by the hands of the poor . 
The Saviour also saith , Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness that , when ye fail , they may receive you into everlasting habitations . 
And , in divers places , the Master maketh much mention of almsgiving and liberality to the poor , as we learn in the Gospel . 
Go sell all that thou hast and distribute unto the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven , and come , take up thy cross and follow me . 
But when the young man heard this he was very sorrowful , for he was very rich . 
Know thou , then , that this is a command of Christ our King and God , which leadeth us from things corruptible and maketh us partakers of things everlasting . 
For few , saith the Lord , are the travellers along the strait and narrow way , but along the wide and broad way many . 
For the soul that hath once rejected her own salvation , and given the reins to unreasonable lusts , is carried about hither and thither . 
And though few walk therein and more choose the broad way that leadeth to destruction , yet not for this shall the life of this divine philosophy be minished in fame . 
Even so shineth the light of Christ on all men abundantly , imparting to us of his lustre . 
But every man shareth thereof in proportion to his desire and zeal . 
Free will again is the sovran motion of an intelligent soul . 
Choice is desire accompanied by deliberation , or deliberation accompanied by desire for things that lie in our power for in choosing we desire that which we have deliberately preferred . 
Deliberation is a motion towards enquiry about actions possible to us a man deliberateth whether he ought to pursue an object or no . 
Then he judgeth which is the better , and so ariseth judgement . 
Then , after inclination toward it , there ariseth choice or rather selection . 
For choice is to choose one or other of two things in view , and to select this rather than that . 
And it is manifest that choice is deliberation plus discrimination , and this from the very etymology . 
For that which is the object of choice' is the thing chosen before the other thing . 
And no man preferreth a thing without deliberation , nor makeeth a choice without having conceived a preference . 
Thus we conclude that choice is desire accompanied by deliberation for things that lie in our power in choosing we desire that which we have deliberately preferred . 
All deliberation aimeth at action and dependeth on action and thus deliberation goeth before all choice , and choice before all action . 
For this reason not only our actions , but also our thoughts , inasmuch as they give occasion for choice , bring in their train crowns or punishments . 
For the beginning of sin and righteous dealing is choice , exercised in action possible to us . 
Where the power of activity is ours , there too are the actions that follow that activity in our power . 
Virtuous activities are in our power , therefore in our power are virtues also for we are absolute masters over all our souls' affairs and all our deliberations . 
Some choices are swift and exceeding fervent , others languid and cold some have a bias entirely toward virtue , while others incline with all their force to its opposite . 
And like in nature to these choices are the ensuing impulses to action . 
Would God , said Ioasaph , that he too were instructed in these mysteries ? The elder answered , The things that are impossible with men are possible with God . 
Now he had a counsellor , which was a good man and endued with righteousness toward God and with all other virtuous wisdom . 
Yet sought he a convenient season to draw his sovereign toward that which was good . 
One night the king said unto him , Come now , let us go forth and walk about the city , if haply we may see something to edify us . 
Now while they were walking about the city , they saw a ray of light shining through an aperture . 
Fixing their eyes thereon , they descried an underground cavernous chamber , in the forefront of which there sat a man , plunged in poverty , and clad in rags and tatters . 
Beside him stood his wife , mixing wine . 
When the man took the cup in his hands , she sung a clear sweet melody , and delighted him by dancing and cozening him with flatteries . 
When the king heard this , he became as one dumb . 
He said , Who then are these men that live a life better than ours ? All , said the chief counsellor who prefer the eternal to the temporal . 
'And who is worthy to obtain this ? asked the king . 
The other answered , All they that hold on the road that leadeth thither for none forbiddeth entrance , if a man but will . 
If therefore thou bid thy servant put thee in mind of these things for the future , I shall obey thy behest . 
For him his father sought in marriage the exceeding fair young daughter of a man of high rank and wealth . 
On his journey he found entertainment in the house of a poor old man , where he rested awhile during the heat of the day . 
, nor cometh there harm to those who have less for both sorts journey along the same road , and hasten to the same end . 
But , in things most necessary and vital , many and great the blessings I have enjoyed of my Lord , though indeed they are without number and beyond compare . 
But the elder said , It is not possible for thee , the son of wealthy parents , to take this a beggar's daughter . 
But I have fallen in love with thy daughter because of her righteousness to God ward , and her discreet wisdom , and I heartily desire to wed her . 
'But , said the youth , I will abide here with your folk and adopt your manner of life . 
Thereupon he stripped him of his own goodly raiment , and asked for the old man's clothes and put them on . 
So the young man acquired the inheritance , and surpassed all the famous and wealthy men of the land . 
Said Ioasaph unto Barlaam , This story also fitly setteth forth mine own estate . 
Whence also me thinketh that thou hadst me in mind when thou spakest it . 
But the end of thy fortune shall confirm it . 
For he saith , There is no king , or mighty man , that had any other beginning of birth . 
For all men have one entrance into life , and the like going out . 
A ship holdeth not together without a steersman , but easily foundereth and a small house shall not stand without a protector . 
The water springs have not failed to gush out since they were made . 
The sea , that receiveth so many rivers , hath not exceeded her measure . 
The courses of Sun and Moon have not varied the order of day and night hath not changed . 
From all these objects is declared unto us the unspeakable power and magnificence of God , witnessed by Prophets and Apostles . 
But no man can fitly conceive or sound forth his glory . 
But when that which is perfect is come , then that which is in part shall be done away . 
But he hath mercy upon all for he can do all things , and winketh at the sins of men , because they should amend . 
For he abhorreth nothing , nor turneth away from them that run unto him , he , the only good Lord and lover of souls . 
Blessed be the holy name of his glory , praised and exalted above all for ever ! Amen . 
Wherefore am I lost in amaze at thine eloquent wisdom . 
The elder said , Mine age is , as I reckon , forty and five years , and in the deserts of the land of Senaar do I dwell . 
For my fellow combatants I have those who labour and contend together with me on the course of the heavenly journey . 
What sayest thou ? quoth Ioasaph . 
Thou seemest to me upwards of seventy years old . 
How speakest thou of forty and five ? Herein methinks thou tellest not the truth . 
Barlaam said unto him , If it be the number of years from my birth that thou askest , thou hast well reckoned them at upwards of seventy . 
But , for myself , I count not amongst the number of my days the years that I wasted in the vanity of the world . 
When I lived to the flesh in the bondage of sin , I was dead in the inner man and those years of deadness I can never call years of life . 
And the years , that have passed since then , I may rightly call years of life , and days of salvation . 
And in numbering these at about forty and five , I reckoned by the true tale , and not off the mark . 
For a wise man hath fitly called sin the death of the immortal soul . 
And the Apostle also saith , 'When ye were the servants of sin , ye were free from righteousness . 
What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed ? for the end of those things is death . 
But now being made free from sin , and become servants to God , ye have your fruit unto holiness , and the end everlasting life . 
For the wages of sin is death , but the gift of God is eternal life . 
For in this we groan , earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven if so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked . 
For we that are in this tabernacle do groan , being burdened not for that we would be unclothed , but clothed upon , that mortality might be swallowed up of life . 
And again , O wretched man that I am ! who shall deliver me from the body of this death ? And once more , I desire to depart and be with Christ . 
These then , said Ioasaph , are the good deeds of that true philosophy , that far surpass the nature of these earthly men who cleave fast to the present life . 
But , should any of the faithful brethren in the neighbourhood bring a blessed dole of bread , we receive it as sent by providence , and bless the faith that brought it . 
Our raiment is of hair , sheepskins or shirts of palm fibre , all thread bare and much patched , to mortify the frailty of the flesh . 
We wear the same clothing winter and summer , which , once put on , we may on no account put off until it be old and quite outworn . 
For by thus afflicting our bodies with the constraints of cold and heat we purvey for ourselves the vesture of our future robes of immortality . 
Now must I return thither whence I came , and thereupon doff this robe belonging to another , and don mine own again . 
Ioasaph therefore begged the elder to shew himself in his wonted apparel . 
And he wore an hair shirt , stiff and rough , from his loins to his knees , and over his shoulders there hung a coat of like sort . 
When these removed , to graze further afield , she followed them . 
But of the residue of the herd , some they killed , and roughly handled others . 
Again Ioasaph , in tears , said unto him , If this be the Lord's pleasure , his will be done ! For the rest , perfect me in holy Baptism . 
Barlaam answered , Nought forbiddeth thee to receive the seal of Christ . 
Make thee ready now and , the Lord working with thee , thou shalt be perfected . 
And the least of all my comrades is incomparably richer than thou . 
But I trust in the mercies of God that thou too shalt soon be passing rich as never afore and then thou wilt not be ready to distribute . 
Barlaam answered , I said not that these men were pinched by poverty , but that they plume themselves on their inexhaustible wealth . 
For to be ever adding money to money , and never to curb the passion for it , but insatiably to covet more and more , betokeneth the extreme of poverty . 
This is true abundance but the mass of material riches will damage rather than benefit its friends . 
Meetly therefore called I it the extreme of poverty , which the lovers of heavenly blessings utterly renounce and eschew , and flee from it , as a man fleeth from an adder . 
Thus therefore worship thou the Father , and the Son , and the Holy Ghost , in three persons or properties and one Godhead . 
This therefore be thy belief but seek not to understand the manner of the generation or procession , for it is incomprehensible . 
For by faith we are taught to hold fast those things that have been divinely taught us out of Holy Scripture but of the manner we are ignorant , and cannot declare it . 
Beside this , acknowledge one Baptism , by water and the Spirit , for the remission of sins . 
For the honour of the Image , saith one of the Saints , passeth over to the original . 
The original is the thing imaged , and from it cometh the derivation . 
Likewise also for this reason we salute the pictures of his undefiled Mother , and of all the Saints . 
In such doctrines and in such faith shalt thou be baptized , keeping thy faith unwavering and pure of all heresy until thy latest breath . 
But all teaching and every speech of doctrine contrary to this blameless faith abhor , and consider it an alienation from God . 
And there came upon him the grace of the Holy Spirit . 
For he saith , As many as received him , to them gave he power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on his name . 
Wherefore thou art no more a servant , but a son and an heir of God through Jesus Christ in the Holy Ghost . 
But , just as smoke driveth away bees , so , we learn , do evil imaginations drive out of us the Holy Spirit's grace . 
Wherefore take good heed hereto , that thou blot out every imagination of sinful passion from thy soul , and plant good thoughts therein , making thyself a temple of the Holy Ghost . 
And the more those greater sins grow on them , the more cloth the soul become accustomed therto and think light of them . 
For if thou labour but a little therein , and have strength to form the habit , at the last , God helping thee , thou shalt advance without labour . 
I felt that she was chafing and fretting , and yearning for meditation with an ungovernable desire , and was utterly unable to incline to any contrary thought . 
They then , that are in the thraldom of wickedness , can hardly be torn away therefrom , as I have already said . 
How shalt thou converse with God ? By drawing near him in prayer and supplication . 
For this reason the Fathers define Prayer as the union of man with God , and call it Angels' work , and the prelude of gladness to come . 
This acquire thou for thyself , and strive to advance thereto , for it is able to exalt thee from earth to heaven . 
But without preparation and at hap hazard thou shalt not advance therein . 
Seven times a day do I praise thee , because of thy righteous judgements . 
My soul hath kept thy testimonies , and loved them exceedingly . 
Let my complaint come before thee , O Lord give me understanding according to thy word . 
While thou art calling thus , the Lord hear thee while thou art yet speaking , he shall say , Behold I am here . 
And now I , have fulfilled my ministry unto thee . 
The grass withereth , and the flower thereof falleth away but the word of the Lord endureth for ever . 
With such moral words did the reverend elder exhort the king's son , and then withdrew to his own hospice . 
Either then make known to thy father this man's business , or in future cease to converse with him . 
Else cast me forth from thy presence , that I be not blameable , and ask thy father to appoint another in my room . 
The king's son said unto him , This do , Zardan , first of all . 
Sit thou down behind the curtain , and hear his communication with me and then thus will I tell thee what thou oughtest to do . 
Thereon he called to remembrance the creation of the first man , the command given unto him , and his transgression thereof , and the sentence pronounced by the Creator for this transgression . 
Then he reckoned up in order the good things wherefrom we excluded ourselves by the disannulling of his commandment . 
Again he made mention of the many grievous misfortunes that unhappily overtook man , after the loss of the blessings . 
Besides this he brought forward God's love toward mankind how our Maker , heedful of our salvation , sent forth teachers and prophets proclaiming the Incarnation of the Only begotten . 
Yea , and we also are not ignorant of this preaching . 
But from the time when thy father stirred up truceless warfare against the Christians , the men have been banished hence , and their teaching is silenced . 
And I hoped that when thou heardest thereof thou wouldst follow it with irresistible desire . 
But , as I perceive , I am disappointed of my hope , seeing that thou art listless to that which hath been spoken . 
But if thou reveal these secrets to the king my father , thou shalt but distress his mind with sorrows and griefs . 
If thou be well disposed to him , on no account reveal this matter to him until a convenient season . 
Speaking thus , he seemed to be only casting seed upon the water for wisdom shall not enter into a soul void of understanding . 
Upon the morrow came Barlaam and spake of his departure but Ioasaph , unable to bear the separation , was distressed at heart , and his eyes filled with tears . 
But fulfil this my one request since thou couldest not receive aught for thy fellow monks , yet for thyself accept a little money for sustenance , and a cloak to cover thee . 
, how shall I acquire for myself that which I have denied them ? If the possession of money were a good thing , I should have let them share it before me . 
But , as I understand that the possession thereof is deadly , I will hazard neither them nor myself in such snares . 
But , not to thwart thy willing mind , let the garments given me by thee be old ones , nothing different from mine own . 
Esteem therefore nought in the present world above God and his blessings . 
Upon thee I call , and upon thine only begotten Son , and upon the Holy Ghost . 
Look upon this thy spiritual sheep that hath come to be a sacrifice unto thee through me thine unworthy servant , and do thou sanctify his soul with thy might and grace . 
Visit this vine , which was planted by thy Holy Spirit , and grant it to bear fruit , the fruit of righteousness . 
Strengthen him , and confirm in him thy covenant , and rescue him from the deceit of the devil . 
But thou art mighty to save me , who sustainest and holdest together all things visible and invisible . 
Suffer me not to walk after the evil will of the flesh , but teach me to do thy will , and preserve me unto thine eternal and blissful life . 
O Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , the consubstantial and undivided Godhead , I call upon thee and glorify thee . 
Thou art praised by all creation thou art glorified by the intelligent powers of the Angels for ever and ever . 
From that time forth he kept himself with all vigilance , seeking to attain purity of soul and body , and living in continency and prayers and intercessions all night long . 
Whence in him was fulfilled the saying of the prophet , In nights raise your hands unto holy things and bless ye the Lord . 
But Zardan observed Ioasaph's way of life , and was full of sorrow , and his soul was pierced with grievous anxieties and he knew not what to do . 
At the last , worn down with pain , he withdrew to his own home , feigning sickness . 
But , on hearing his words , the king suspected that his son had been wroth with Zardan , and that this slight had caused his retirement . 
So , wishing to search the matter , he sent Zardan word , saying To morrow I shall come to see thee , and judge of the malady that hath befallen thee . 
But Zardan , on hearing this message , at daybreak wrapt his cloak around him and went to the king , and entered and fell in obeisance on the ground . 
The king spake unto him , Why hast thou forced thyself to appear ? I was minded to visit thee myself , and so make known to all my friendship for thee . 
There came an evil man and a sorcerer , and communicated to him the precepts of the Christian religion . 
Moreover he gave the old man's name , saying that it was Barlaam . 
When he was come , with much despondency and dejection the king told him of that which had happened . 
He , seeing the king's trouble and confusion of mind , said , O king , trouble and distress thyself no more . 
By these words then did Araches set the king in happier frame of mind and they turned their thoughts to the thorough sifting of the matter . 
This , O king , said Araches , do we first of all . 
Make we haste to apprehend that infamous Barlaam . 
If we take him , I am assured that we shall not miss the mark , nor be cheated of our hope . 
He is of our opinion , and was my teacher in studies . 
I will give him the hint , and go by night , and tell him the full tale . 
Then , after much disputation , he shall be worsted and utterly discomfited . 
Also the man who hath played the part of Barlaam shall be converted , and stoutly proclaim that he hath been in error . 
Tim king was delighted with his words , and rocked himself on idle hopes , and thought it excellent counsel . 
Thereupon , learning that Barlaam was but lately departed , he was zealous to take him prisoner . 
But though he toiled by the space of six full days , his labour was but spent in vain . 
Standing thereon , he descried at the foot of the mountain a company of hermits a walking . 
Straightway at their governor's word of command all his men ran upon them in breathless haste , vying one with another , who should arrive first . 
When they arrived , they came about the monks like so many dogs , or evil beasts that plague mankind . 
Their leader and captain bore a wallet of hair , charged with the relics of some holy Fathers departed this life . 
The governor said , It is for Barlaam that I make search , and I asked thee of him , to learn where he is . 
But now for many days past we have not seen his face . 
Said Araches , Show me his abode . 
The monk answered , Had he wished to see you , he would have come forth to meet you . 
As for us , it is not lawful to make known to you his hermitage . 
Wherefore abandon all hope of gaining the knowledge that ye desire , and shrink not to work your will . 
We shall neither reveal the dwelling place of our brother , whom God loveth , although we know it , nor shall we betray any other monasteries unbeknown to ye . 
We will not endure to escape death by such cowardice . 
Nay , liefer would we die honourably , and offer unto God , after the sweats of virtue , the life blood of courage . 
Their courage and nobility won admiration even from that tyrant . 
After many days Araches brought them to the king , and declared their case . 
Then he set them before the bitterly incensed king and he , when he saw them , boiled over with fury and was like to one mad . 
He ordered them to be beaten without mercy , and , when he saw them cruelly mangled with scourges , could scarcely restrain his madness , and order the tormentors to cease . 
But know thou well that the bones of them , that have already departed this life , bring the thought of death more vividly before us than do the bones of the living . 
For , as your gods have done , why should not also the men that follow them do ? Great then is the error that thou hast erred , O king . 
But recover thy wits from this earthly sleep open thy sealed eyes , and behold the glory of God that shineth round about us all and come at length to thyself . 
For saith the prophet , Take heed , ye unwise among the people , and , O ye fools , understand at last . 
Understand thou that there is no God except our God , and no salvation except in him . 
But the king said , Cease this foolish babbling , and anon discover to me Barlaam else shalt thou taste instruments of torture such as thou hast never tasted before . 
The more perils that thou subjectest us to for the sake of our religion , the more shalt thou be our benefactor . 
Do therefore as thou wilt for we shall not consent to do aught outside our duty , nor shall we surrender ourselves to sin . 
Deem not that it is a slight sin to betray a fellow combatant and fellow soldier into thy hands . 
Nay , but thou shalt not have that scoff to make at us no , not if thou put us to ten thousand deaths . 
We be not such cowards as to betray our religion through dread of thy torments , or to disgrace the law divine . 
Incensed with anger thereat , the monarch ordered the tongues of these Confessors to be rooted out , and their eyes digged out , and likewise their hands and feet lopped off . 
Sentence passed , the henchmen and guards surrounded and mutilated them , without pity and without ruth . 
But those blessed , shamefast , noble hearted men went bravely to torture like guests to a banquet , exhorting one another to meet death for Christ his sake undaunted . 
In such divers tortures did these holy monks lay down their lives for the Lord . 
They were in all seventeen . 
, and told him of their plans , and returned to the king at day break . 
Again he demanded horsemen , and made as though he went in quest of Barlaam . 
When he was gone forth , and was walking the desert , a man was seen to issue from a ravine . 
Araches gave command to his men to pursue him . 
They took and brought him before their master . 
When asked who he was , what his religion and what his name , the man declared himself a Christian and gave his name as Barlaam , even as he had been instructed . 
Araches made great show of joy , apprehended him and returned quickly to the king , and told his tale and produced his man . 
If thou be persuaded by me , thou shalt receive pardon if not , thou shalt die the death . 
With these words he delivered him to Araches , commanding that he should be most strictly guarded . 
With groans and lamentations he importuned God , and called upon him to succour the aged man . 
Nor did the good God despise his complaint , for he is loving with them that abide him in the day of trouble , and knoweth them that fear him . 
Wherefore in a night vision he made known the whole plot to the young prince , and strengthened and cheered him for the trial of his righteousness . 
So , when the prince awoke from sleep , he found that his heart , erstwhile so sore and heavy , was now full of joyaunce , courage and pleasant light . 
But the king rejoiced at that which he had done and planned , imagining that he was well advised , and showering thanks on Araches . 
After two days the king visited his son's palace . 
Thou art become a joy to mine enemies , and a laughing stock to mine adversaries . 
Without him was there nothing made , nor without his providence can aught subsist . 
He is the life of all , the support of all , the light of all , being wholly sweetness and insatiable desire , the summit of aspiration . 
But my soul was distressed and divided asunder , that thou , my lord and father , didst not share in my blessings . 
Knowing then how matters now stand with me , prithee , no longer trouble thyself in endeavouring to persuade me to change my good confession . 
Rightly prophesied the astrologers in thy nativity that thou shouldest prove a knave and villain , an impostor and rebellious son . 
The grass withereth , and the flower thereof falleth away but the word of my Lord , which by the gospel is preached unto all , shall endure for ever . 
But the present is the set time for work the future for reward . 
Unto him be glory and praise for ever and ever ! Amen . 
In such wise did the father threaten and wrathfully retire . 
But , according to thine unerring pledge , be thou with me , thine unworthy and sorry servant . 
Thee I acknowledge and confess , the maker and provider of all creation . 
When he had thus prayed , he felt divine comfort stealing over his heart , and , fulfilled with courage , he spent the whole night in prayer . 
Meanwhile the king communed with Araches , his friend , as touching his son's matters , and signified to him his son's sheer audacity and unchangeable resolution . 
Araches gave counsel that he should , in his dealings with him , show the utmost kindness and courtesy , in the hope , perchance , of alluring him by flattering attentions . 
The day following , the king came to his son , and sat down , and called him to his side . 
Thus shalt thou be well pleasing to me thy father throughout life and be honoured and lauded of all men . 
It is a great count in the score of praise to be obedient to thy father , especially in a good cause , and to gain the goodwill of the gods . 
Many nights and days have I spent thus many wise and learned men have I called to my council and with many of them that are called Christians have I conversed . 
By untiring enquiry and ardent search I have discovered the pathway of truth , witnessed by wise men honoured for their intelligence and wit , that there is none other faith than ours . 
But thou , dearest son , obey thy father , who , by diligent and honest search , hath found the real good . 
And I earnestly desire that thou too shouldest not wander as a fool , but shouldest follow me . 
Have respect then unto thy father . 
But be not thou , my son , one of their number . 
Therefore the prince set before his eyes the commandment of the Lord , which saith , I came not to send peace , but strife and a sword . 
I shall cry to the highest God to God that did well to me , and the rest of the psalm . 
Wherefore it is impossible for me , out of devotion to my father , to forfeit God . 
Wherefore thou hast lost the right pathway , and wanderest over terrible cliffs and chasms . 
, and is sharper than any two edged sword . 
How shall I describe to thee the evils of this life ? I will tell them , and they shall be more in number than the sand . 
For such life is the fishhook of the devil , baited with beastly pleasure , whereby he deceiveth and draggeth his prey into the depth of hell . 
There is no language that can declare the greatness of yonder glory and delight , of the joy unspeakable , and the everlasting gladness . 
As thou thyself seest , we all die and there is no man that shall live and not see death . 
Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun they that believed in the Father , Son and Holy Ghost , and ended this present life in good works . 
All their life in word , deed and thought shall come before their faces . 
If your side win , then shall ye and your Barlaam gain your desires but if ye lose , then shall ye with right good will yield yourselves to my commands . 
There and then did the king command all , whether idolaters or Christians , to assemble . 
Then were there gathered together multitudes that held his loathly religion but of the Christians was there found one only that came to the help of the supposed Barlaam . 
So noble hearted Barachias came alone to the contest , to help and champion the truth . 
The king sat down before all on a doom stool high and exalted , and bade his son sit beside him . 
He , in reverence and awe of his father , consented not thereto , but sat near him on the ground . 
These were assembled for to join argument with the king's son and his fellows , and on them was fulfilled the proverb , Gazelle against lion . 
Your bodies will I give to be devoured by wild beasts and your children will I deliver to perpetual slavery . 
When the king had thus spoken , his son said , A righteous doom hast thou judged this day , O king . 
The Lord establish this thy mind ! I too have the same bidding for my teacher . 
And , turning round to Nachor , who was supposed to be Barlaam , he said , Thou knowest , Barlaam , in what splendour and luxury thou foundest me . 
Now therefore consider that thou art weighed in the balance . 
But this was all the work of divine providence that was wisely establishing our cause by the mouth of our adversaries . 
There sat the king upon his throne , his son beside him , as we have said . 
There beside him stood these unwise orators who had whetted their tongues like a sharp sword , to destroy truth , and who conceive mischief and bring forth iniquity . 
There were gathered innumerable multitudes , come to view the contest and see which side should carry oft the victory . 
And , when I beheld the world and all that therein is , how it is moved by law , I understood that he who moveth and sustaineth it is God . 
That which moveth is ever stronger than that which is moved , and that which sustaineth is stronger than that which is sustained . 
By him all things consist . 
He hath no need of sacrifice , or drink offering , or of any of the things that we see , but all men have need of him . 
Let us therefore see which of these hold the truth , and which error . 
And they enclose them in temples , and worship them under the title of gods , and guard them in safety lest they be stolen by robbers . 
And I am moved to wonder , O king , how they , who are called philosophers among them , fail to understand that even the very elements are corruptible . 
What then must I say about the elements ? They , who ween that the Heaven is a god , are in error . 
And the firmament is moved by law together with its luminaries . 
Whence it is evident that the heaven is not a god , but only a work of God . 
They again that think that the Earth is a goddess have gone astray . 
We behold it dishonoured , mastered , defiled and rendered useless by mankind . 
If it be baked by the sun , it becometh dead , for nothing groweth from a potsherd . 
And again , if it be soaked overmuch , it rotteth , fruit and all . 
It is trodden under foot of men and the residue of the beasts it is polluted with the blood of the murdered , it is digged and made a grave for dead bodies . 
This being so , Earth can in no wise be a goddess , but only the work of God for the use of men . 
They that think that Water is a god have gone astray . 
It also hath been made for the use of men . 
It is under their lordship it is polluted , and perisheth it is altered by boiling , by dyeing , by congealment , or by being brought to the cleansing of all defilements . 
Wherefore Water cannot be a god , but only the work of God . 
They that think that Fire is a god are in error . 
It too was made for the use of men . 
Moreover , it perisheth in divers ways , when it is quenched by mankind . 
Wherefore Fire cannot be a god , but only the work of God . 
They that think that the breath of the Winds is a goddess are in error . 
Wherefore it is not to be supposed that the breath of the Winds is a goddess , but only the work of God . 
They that think that the Sun is a god are in error . 
Wherefore we may not consider that the Sun is a god , but only the work of God . 
They that think that the Moon is a goddess are in error . 
Wherefore we do not consider that the Moon is a goddess , but only the work of God . 
They that think that Man is a god are in error . 
We see man moving by law , growing up , and waxing old , even against his will . 
Now he rejoiceth , now he grieveth , requiring meat and drink and raiment . 
So Man cannot be a god , but only the work of God . 
Now come we to the Greeks that we may see whether they have any understanding concerning God . 
And they say that Zeus cut off his privy parts , and cast them into the sea , whence , as fable telleth , was born Aphrodite . 
So Zeus bound his own father , and cast him into Tartarus . 
In like manner they introduce the story of Ganymede . 
So it appeareth that he is needy . 
But it is impossible for one who is lame and wanteth men's aid to be a God . 
After him , they represent as a god Hermes , a lusty fellow , a thief , and a covetous , a sorcerer , bowlegged , and an interpreter of speech . 
It is impossible for such an one to be a God . 
, and in the end , they say that he was struck by Zeus with a thunder bolt , because of Tyndareus , son of Lakedaemon , and thus perished . 
But in the end they say he was taken in adultery with Aphrodite by the child Eros and Hephaestus and was bound by them . 
Soothly he is needy but one that is needy and emulous and a minstrel cannot be a god . 
Artemis , his sister , they represent as an huntress , with bow and quiver , ranging the mountains alone , with her hounds , in chase of stag or boar . 
Once she had for leman Ares , once Anchises , once Adonis , whose death she lamenteth , seeking her lost lover . 
They say that she even descended into Hades to ransom Adonis from Persephone . 
Didst thou , O king , ever see madness greater than this ? They represent this weeping and wailing adulteress as a goddess . 
Adonis they show as an hunter god , violently killed by a boar tusk , and unable to help his own distress . 
Hence men , taking occasion from their gods , wrought all lawlessness , lasciviousness and ungodliness , polluting earth and air with their horrible deeds . 
But the Egyptians , more fatuous and foolish than they , have erred worse than any other nation . 
From the beginning they worshipped Isis , which had for her brother and husband that Osiris which was slain by his brother Typhon . 
And for this reason Isis fled with Horus her son to Byblos in Syria , seeking Osiris and bitterly wailing , until Horus was grown up and killed Typhon . 
And yet , although famous for all these misadventures , these be they that were considered gods by the senseless Egyptians . 
The same people , not content therewith , nor with the rest of the idols of the heathen , also introduced brute beasts as gods . 
And the poor fools do not perceive , concerning these things , that they have no power at all . 
Though they see their gods being devoured , burnt and killed by other men , and rotting away , they cannot grasp the fact that they are no gods . 
So it is manifest , O king , that all this history of the nature of the gods is error . 
But , if they did well in so doing , then are their laws unjust , seeing that they have been framed in condemnation of the gods . 
But now the laws are good and just , because they encourage good and forbid evil whereas the deeds of their gods offend against law . 
Their gods then are offenders against law and all that introduce such gods as these are worthy of death and are ungodly . 
Therefore it hath been proven , O king , that all these idols , belonging to many gods , are works of error and destruction . 
Come we now , O king , to the Jews , that we may see what they also think concerning God . 
The Jews are the descendants of Abraham , Isaac and Jacob , and went once to sojourn in Egypt . 
From thence God brought them out with a mighty hand and stretched out arm by Moses their lawgiver and with many miracles and signs made he known unto them his power . 
But , like the rest , these proved ungrateful and unprofitable , and often worshipped images of the heathen , and killed the prophets and righteous men that were sent unto them . 
Wherefore by their own lawlessness they perished . 
So much for the Jews . 
As for the Christians , they trace their line from the Lord Jesus Christ . 
When he had accomplished his marvellous dispensation , of his own free will by a mighty dispensation he tasted of death upon the Cross . 
This Jesus had twelve disciples , who , after his ascent into the heavens , went out into all the kingdoms of the world , telling of his greatness . 
Even so one of them visited our coasts , preaching the doctrine of truth whence they who still serve the righteousness of his preaching are called Christians . 
They neither commit adultery nor fornication nor do they bear false witness , nor covet other men's goods they honour father and mother , and love their neighbours they give right judgement . 
They do not unto other that which they would not have done unto themselves . 
They comfort such as wrong them , and make friends of them they labour to do good to their enemies they are meek and gentle . 
They refrain themselves from all unlawful intercourse and all uncleanness . 
They despise not the widow , and grieve not the orphan . 
He that hath distributeth liberally to him that hath not . 
Verily , then , this is the way of truth which leadeth its wayfarers unto the eternal kingdom promised by Christ in the life to come . 
Well , therefore , hath thy son understood it , and rightly hath he been taught to serve the living God , and to be saved for the world to come . 
Great and marvellous are the things spoken and wrought by the Christians , because they speak not the words of men but the words of God . 
But all other nations are deceived , and deceive themselves . 
Walking in darkness they stagger one against another like drunken men . 
This is the end of my speech spoken unto thee , O king , prompted by the truth that is in my mind . 
So he himself made answer in many words , and by dark speeches hinted that Nachor should relax his resistance , and be worsted by the argument of the orators . 
But Nachor the more mightily prevailed , tearing to pieces all their propositions and conclusions and exposing the fallacy of their error . 
After the debate had been prolonged till well nigh eventide , the king dismissed the assembly , making as though he would renew the discussion on the morrow . 
Or else deliver thy counsellors to me this night , and take mine to thyself . 
The king's son , therefore , departed unto his own palace , like a conqueror in the Olympic games , and with him went Nachor . 
But well sung is the proverb , The heart of a fool will conceive folly . 
So this your device and counsel was stale and utterly senseless but the work that thou hast accomplished is full of wisdom . 
Wherefore , rejoice , Nachor , and be exceeding glad . 
Thou shalt not live for ever , but , being mortal , shalt depart hence ere long , even as all that have been before thee . 
But evil habit and the insolence of the ancient supplanter hath blinded the eyes of my heart , and shed a thick darkness over my reason . 
But now , at thy word , I will cast away the veil of gloom , and run unto the light of the countenance of the Lord . 
For it is written , God is able of these very stones to raise up children unto Abraham . 
Then was the prince exceeding glad , and joyfully heard his saying . 
And he embraced and kissed him affectionately and , when he had prayed earnestly to God , he sent him forth from the palace . 
With a right warm heart knelt Nachor down before him , and washed his feet with his tears , like the harlot of old , and craved holy Baptism . 
Them he visited with terrible outrage and dishonour , scourging some severely with whips of oxhide , besmearing their eyes with soot , and casting them away from his presence . 
Howbeit he no longer honoured his temple keepers , nor would he keep feasts , nor make drink offerings to his idols , but his mind was tossed between two opinions . 
Theatres , horse races , riding to hounds , and all the vain pleasures of youth , the baits that take foolish souls , were reckoned by him as nothing worth . 
But he hung wholly on the commands of Christ for whom he yearned , his heart being wounded with love divine . 
For him he longed , who alone is to be longed for , who is all sweetness and desire and aspiration insatiable . 
Many were the souls that he delivered from the snares of the devil , and brought safely unto Christ for many resorted unto him , and profited by his wholesome words . 
Him the king honoured exceedingly , and counted him his friend and teacher , because , he said , it was by the guidance of his prophecies that his kingdom ever prospered . 
And they said , Except thou come thyself to our succour , gone is all hope ! and lost is all the reverence of the gods . 
Thou only art left to be our comfort in this misfortune , and upon thee we fix our hopes . 
Hereto the king made answer , We have not conquered , aged sir , we have not conquered nay , rather have we been defeated in open fight . 
They that were for us turned suddenly against us . 
They found our host a wild , half drunken , feeble folk , and utterly overthrew it . 
But now , if there be with thee any power and strength to help our fallen religion and set it up again , declare it . 
They shall not endure to face me , far less join argument , or come to propositions and oppositions with me . 
Then the king despatched letters hither and thither , that all men should gather together to this loathsome assembly . 
Then mightest thou have seen multitudes streaming in , and bringing with them sheep and oxen and divers kinds of beasts . 
So when all were assembled , the king arose , with that deceiver Theudas , and proceeded to the temple , bringing one hundred and twenty bullocks and many animals for sacrifice . 
And they celebrated their accursed feast till the city resounded with the cry of the brute beasts and the very air was polluted with the reek of sacrifice . 
For , though I have left no device and deed untried , yet have I found no remedy for the mischief , but I perceive that his will is stronger than all . 
When I have dealt gently and kindly with him , I have found that he payeth me no regard whatsoever . 
When I have treated him harshly and severely , I have seen him driven the quicker to desperation . 
To thy wisdom for the future I leave the care of this calamity that hath befallen me . 
And what is the plan ? he asked . 
Then began Theudas to weave his web . 
He made his villainy sharp as any razor and did cunningly prepare his drugs . 
Now behold this malicious device and suggestion of the evil one . 
For myself , I will send him one of the spirits told off for such duties , and I will thus kindle all the more fiercely the coals of sensual desire . 
For there is nothing like the sight of women to allure and enchant the minds of men . 
Listen to a story that beareth witness to my word . 
A certain king was grieved and exceeding sad at heart , because that he had no male issue , deeming this no small misfortune . 
While he was in this condition , there was born to him a son , and the king's soul was filled with joy thereat . 
In brief , row after row , they showed the boy everything . 
But the boy's heart was smitten with the love of these above all the rest . 
So , when they had gone round everywhere and brought him again unto the king , the king asked , which of all these sights had pleased him most . 
What , answered the boy , but the Devils that deceive men ? Nothing that I have seen to day hath fired my heart with such love as these . 
The king was astonished at the saying of the boy , to think how masterful a thing the love of women is . 
Therefore think not to subdue thy son in any other way than this . 
The king heard this tale gladly and there were brought before him some chosen damsels , young and exceeding beautiful . 
These flocked around the prince , embraced him , and provoked him to filthy wantonness , by their walk and talk inviting him to dalliaunce . 
Besides these , he had no man at whom to look , or with whom to converse or break his fast , for these damsels were his all . 
But the wretch little knew what laughter he should create against himself , and to what shame he should be put , with the whole devilish troop under him . 
The evil one plied the bellows from within , while the damsels , fair of face , but uncomely of soul , supplied the evil fuel from without . 
But Ioasaph's pure soul was disturbed to feel the touch of evil , and to see the warlike host of strange thoughts that was charging down upon him . 
When he had thought thereon , and shed bitter tears , he smote upon his breast , driving out evil thoughts , as good for nothing drones from the hive . 
Leave me not to be destroyed in iniquities , and to dishonour my body which I swore to present unto thee chaste . 
For for thee I yearn thee I worship , the Father , and the Son , and the Holy Ghost , now and for evermore , and world without end . 
When he had added the Amen , he felt heavenly comfort stealing over him from above , and the evil thoughts withdrew , and he continued in prayer until early morn . 
For he made furious endeavour to carry out the orders that Theudas had given him , and once more prepared his drugs , and on this wise . 
The devil entered into the heart of one of the young damsels . 
Moreover the devil secretly sowed in Ioasaph's heart thoughts that he might recover her from idolatry , and make her a Christian . 
But these were all stratagems of the wily serpent . 
Lady , and what is thy request ? said he . 
In vain , O Lady , said he , hast thou made this hard request . 
Yea , Lady , said he , all this is even as thou sayest . 
It is permitted to all who will to live in wedlock , but not to them that have once made promise to Christ to be virgins . 
But fulfil me one other small and trivial desire of mine , if thou art in very truth minded for to save my soul . 
Keep company with me this one night only , and grant me to revel in thy beauty , and do thou in turn take thy fill of my comeliness . 
And I give thee my word , that , with daybreak , I will become a Christian , and forsake all the worship of my gods . 
And many other such things shalt thou find in thy Scriptures . 
If then in very sooth , as thou sayest , thou seekest to save my soul , fulfil me this my small desire . 
Now when he had prayed in tears for many hours , and often bent the knee , he sunk down upon the pavement . 
After he had slumbered awhile , he saw himself carried off by certain dread men , and passing through places which he had never heretofore beheld . 
The leaves of the trees rustled clearly in a gentle breeze , and , as they shook , sent forth a gracious perfume that cloyed not the sense . 
Thrones were set there , fashioned of the purest gold and costly stones , throwing out never so bright a lustre , and radiant settles among wondrous couches too beautiful to be described . 
And beside them there were running waters exceeding clear , and delightful to the eye . 
And Ioasaph heard a voice crying , This is the rest of the righteous this the gladness of them that have pleased the Lord . 
When these dread men had carried him out from thence , they spake of taking him back to earth . 
But they said , It is impossible for thee to be there now but , with much toil and sweat , thou shalt come hither , if thou constrain thyself . 
Thus spake they and again they crossed that mighty plain , and bare him to regions of darkness and utter woe , where sorrow matched the brightness which he had seen above . 
There was darkness without a ray of light , and utter gloom , and the whole place was full of tribulation and trouble . 
There blazed a glowing furnace of fire , and there crept the worm of torment . 
Then was the king informed of his son's sickness and he came and asked what ailed him . 
But how loving is God unto Israel , even unto such as are of a true heart ! He hath delivered me that am lowly from the midst of the dogs . 
Again therefore the king was seized with despondency , and again he was like to abjure his whole way of life and with strange thoughts he went again unto his own palace . 
So incontinent we found a weapon , wherewith our chief did once confront the first made man and prevailed against him . 
We have determined to approach the prince no more . 
Thus , then , did the evil spirits plainly make known unto Theudas all that was come to pass . 
But now , if thou hast any device left , we will make trial thereof . 
Peradventure I shall find some escape from this evil . 
Then did Theudas ask for a meeting with his son and on the morrow the king took him and went forth to visit the prince . 
The king sat down and provoked debate , upbraiding and chiding him for his disobedience and stubbornness of mind . 
some other of your fairest beasts , and in your folly make sacrifice to your dead divinity . 
Your sacrifice is of more value than your idol for the image was fashioned by man , but the beast was created by God . 
Then , falling upon the earth , thou liest baser than the base stone , worshipping not God but thine own dead and lifeless handiwork . 
Thy stone god is broken asunder thy potsherd god shattered thy brazen god rusteth thy gold or silver god is melted down . 
Aye , and thy gods are sold , some for a paltry , others for a great price . 
Not their divinity but their material giveth them value . 
Estranged from the truth , thou hast been led astray by false images , fashioning statues and attaching to the works of thine own hands the name of God . 
O wretched man , return to thy senses , and learn that thou art older than the god made by thee . 
Being a man , thou hast persuaded thyself that thou canst make God . 
Had there been no warders nigh at hand , thou hadst lost thy god . 
He , to whom many a populous city of fools prayeth as God to guard it , the same hath suite of guards at hand to save him from being stolen . 
Your man of war maketh to himself an image after the similitude of a warrior , and calleth it Ares . 
And the lecher , making a symbol of his own soul , deifieth his vice and calleth it Aphrodite . 
Another , in honour of his own love of wine , fashioneth an idol which he calleth Dionysus . 
Likewise lovers of all other evil things set up idols of their own lusts for they name their lusts their gods . 
And therefore , before their altars , there are lascivious dances , and strains of lewd songs and mad revelries . 
These be thine objects of worship , O Theudas , who art more senseless than thine idols . 
Before these thou biddest me fall down and worship . 
This verily is the counsel of thine iniquity and senseless mind . 
But thou thyself shalt be like unto them , and all such as put their trust in them . 
For if he had not humbled himself so far as to take the form of a servant , we had not received the adoption of sons . 
Wherefore , I tell thee , without suffering he met the suffering of the Cross , presenting therein his two natures . 
For , as man , he was crucified but , as God , he darkened the sun , shook the earth , and raised from their graves many bodies that had fallen asleep . 
Again , as man , he died but , as God , after that he had harried hell , he rose again . 
Therefore , as God , he rose again , and ascended into heaven , from whence he was never parted . 
But that of the Galileans was preached by some country peasants , poor and common men , a mere handful , not exceeding twelve in number . 
Concerning you , the defenders of idolatry , were these words spoken by the prophet . 
But , as touching the divine wisdom of the Gospel , thus saith the Lord , Heaven and earth shall pass away , but my words shall not pass away . 
And again the Psalmist saith , Thou , Lord , in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth and the heavens are the work of thy hands . 
Their shadows alone healed all the ailments of men . 
It standeth on record that the man Seruch was the first to bring in the use of images . 
For it is said that in the old times he honoured those who had achieved some memorable deed of courage , friendship , or any other such virtue with statues and pillars . 
next , that they may drag their poor dupes into the unquenchable fire prepared for themselves . 
Hence they teach men all iniquity and filthiness , seeing that they have once subjected themselves to their deceit . 
When Theudas had heard these sayings , and seen that the word was full of divine wisdom , like one thunder struck , he was smitten dumb . 
Verily , we are defeated , and have no further apology , and have no strength to face the words that he hath uttered . 
Mighty therefore , in sooth , is the God of the Christians mighty is their faith mighty are their mysteries . 
And he not only receiveth thee , but he goeth out to meet thee returning out of the way of iniquity , as though it were a son returning from a far country . 
The Lord himself saith , There is exceeding great joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth' and again , I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance . 
Turn ye , turn ye from your evil way . 
None of his sins which he hath committed shall be remembered against him . 
Because he hath done the decree of righteousness , he shall live thereby . 
Then , after he had instructed and charged him to fast many days , he cleansed him in Holy Baptism . 
And all the days of his life Theudas heartily repented him of his misdeeds , with tears and sighs seeking the favour of God . 
As for the king , when things fortuned thus , he was completely bewildered , and plainly showed his sore vexation and tumult of soul . 
So again he called all his senators together , and considered what means were still his to deal with his son . 
By nature , or , it may be , by chance , he is contentious and implacable . 
But if he shall continue in the Christian religion , yet shall it be some solace to time in thy distress , that thou hast not lost thy son . 
Thus spake Araches , and all bare witness that they welcomed his proposal . 
Therefore also the king agreed that this matter should thus be settled . 
So at day break he called his son , and said unto him , This is now my latest word with thee , my son . 
Unless thou be obedient thereto , and in this way heal my heart , know thou well , that I shall no longer spare thee . 
And he bade his rulers and governors and satraps , every one that would , to depart together with his son the king . 
And he set apart a mighty and populous city for his kingdom , and gave him everything that befitted a king . 
And in person he besieged the idolatrous temples and altars , and razed them to the ground , and uncovered their foundations , leaving no trace of their ungodliness . 
Moreover he declared the terrible day of his dreadful second coming , and the bliss laid up for the righteous , and the punishments awaiting sinners . 
All these truths he expounded with kindly mien and gentle words . 
For he was not minded to be reverenced and feared for the grandeur of his power and kingly magnificence , but rather for his humility and meekness . 
Hereby also he more easily drew all men unto himself , being verily marvellous in his acts , and equitable and modest in spirit . 
Wherefore his power , being strongly reinforced by his gentleness and equity , caused all men to yield themselves to his words . 
And forthwith , when he had made ready a rude font , he bade baptize them that were turning to Christ . 
And so they were baptized , first the rulers and the men in authority next , the soldiers on service and the rest of the multitude . 
Wherefore also from all quarters multitudes flocked to King Ioasaph , desirous to be instructed by him in godliness . 
And all idolatrous images were utterly demolished , and all their wealth and temple treasure was taken from them , and in their stead holy courts were built for God . 
For these King Ioasaph dedicated the riches and costly vestments and treasures of the idolatrous temples , thereby making this worthless and superfluous material fit for service , and profitable . 
And all the region round about was freed from their dark deceit , and illuminated with the light of the blameless Christian faith . 
And , soothly , the king was a good example to all and he inflamed and kindled the hearts of many to be of the same mind with himself . 
For such is the nature of authority . 
Its subjects alway conform to its likeness , and are wont to love the same objects , and to practise the pursuits which they perceive to be pleasing to their governor . 
Hence , God helping , religion grew and increased amongst them . 
For he knew that this , afore all things , is the work of a king , to teach men to fear God and keep righteousness . 
For this is the end of good kingship , to be king and lord over pleasure which end also he achieved . 
Temperance and righteousness he had already attained he wore on his brow the crown of temperance , and wrapped about him the purple of righteousness . 
He called to mind the uncertainty of earthly riches , how they resemble the running of river waters . 
Therefore made he haste to lay up his treasure where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt and where thieves do not break through nor steal . 
So he began to distribute all his money to the poor , sparing naught thereof . 
Then , too , did his father's subjects begin to come to him , and , laying aside all error , received the Gospel of truth . 
And the house of Ioasaph grew and waxed strong , but the house of Abenner waned and grew weak , even as the Book of the Kings declareth concerning David and Saul . 
When king Abenner saw this , though late and loth , he came to his senses , and renounced his false gods with all their impotence and vain deceit . 
Again he called an assembly of his chief counsellors , and brought to light the thoughts of his heart . 
, it pleased the king to signify the same to his son . 
Therefore on the morrow he wrote a letter to Ioasaph , running thus King Abenner to his well beloved son Ioasaph , greeting . 
Dearest son , many thoughts have been stealing into my soul , and rule it with a rod of iron . 
Nay , but we shut our eyes , and would not behold the light which thou didst enkindle more brightly for us . 
But now we have removed that dense mist from our eyes , and see some small ray of truth , and there cometh on us repentance of our misdeeds . 
When Ioasaph had received this letter , and read the words therein , his soul was filled with mingled joy and amazement . 
Great art thou O Lord , and marvellous worthy to be praised , and of thy greatness there is no end . 
I give thanks unto thee , vile and unworthy though I be , and insufficient of myself to glorify thy greatness . 
Show him full clearly that thou art the ever living true God , and only King , eternal and immortal . 
And afterward , they two were closeted together . 
This Holy Spirit's grace and wisdom taught Ioasaph to speak with the king his father , enlightening him with the light of knowledge . 
On the third day he rose again from the dead , and redeemed us from our first penalty , and restored to us our first glory . 
Moreover Ioasaph instructed his father concerning the kingdom of heaven that awaiteth them that are worthy thereof , and the joy unspeakable . 
All these things set he forth in many words , which bore witness that the grace of the Spirit was dwelling richly within him . 
And when he had confirmed these truths by many an example , and testimony of Scripture , he made an end of speaking . 
King Abenner was pricked to the heart by this inspired wisdom and with loud voice and fervent heart confessed Christ his Saviour , and forthwith forsook all superstitious error . 
He venerated the sign of the life giving Cross in the sight of all and , in the hearing of all , proclaimed our Lord Jesus Christ to be God . 
By telling in full the tale of his former ungodliness , and of his own cruelty and blood thirstiness toward the Christians , he proved himself a great power for religion . 
So here was proved in fact , the saying of Paul that where sin abounded , there did grace much more abound . 
Then he brake them into small pieces , and distributed them to the poor , thus making that which had been useless useful . 
And not only in the city but throughout all the country also , thus did they in their zeal . 
And the evil spirits that dwelt in those altars were driven forth with shrieks , and cried out in terror at the invincible power of our God . 
And all the region round about , and the greater part of the neighbour nations , were led , as by the hand , to the true Faith . 
And every disease , and every assault of evil spirits was driven far from the believers , and all were sane and sound in body and in soul . 
And many other miracles were wrought for the confirmation of the Faith . 
But King Abenner , having thus forsaken his former disgraceful life , and repented of his evil deeds , handed over to his son the rule of all his kingdom . 
Thus the king passed through the good change and entered the road that leadeth to virtue , so that his righteousness now surpassed his former sins of ignorance . 
For four years did he live thus in repentance and tears and virtuous acts , and then fell into the sickness whereof he died . 
But when the end drew nigh , he began to fear and to be dismayed , calling to remembrance the evil that he had wrought . 
Fear not , therefore , O my father , neither be of doubtful mind for the sins of them that turn to God prevail not against his infinite goodness . 
For these , however many , are subject to measure and number but measure and number cannot limit his goodness . 
It is impossible then for that which is subject to measure to exceed the unmeasurable . 
With such comfortable words did Ioasaph cheer his soul , and bring him to a good courage . 
What reward therefore shall I give thee for all these benefits ? God is he that shall make the due recompense . 
Charge them not to be bitter against him . 
For all things are possible with thee , the Lord of all , save only to withhold pity from them that turn not unto thee this is impossible . 
For thy pity is poured out upon all men , and thou savest them that call upon thee , Lord Jesu Christ , because glory becometh thee for ever and ever . 
But , on the eighth day , he went back to his palace and distributed amongst the poor all his wealth and riches , so that not one person was left in want . 
But he is gone to yonder judgement seat , to give account of his life in this world , carrying with him no advocate whatsoever , except his deeds , good or bad . 
And the same law is ordained by nature for every man born of woman , and there is no escape . 
But my father's opposition held me back , and the command that biddeth us to honour our fathers . 
Lamenting bitterly , they protested with oaths and with tears , that they would never let him go , but would restrain him and not suffer in any wise his departure . 
He declared that he gave in to their instancy , and dismissed them still grieving , and bearing on their cheeks the signs of sorrow . 
Next , he charged them to receive none other than Barachias to be ruler of the kingdom . 
Then left he in his bed chamber the roll containing his letter , and , unobserved of all , went forth from his palace . 
When they beheld him , they surrounded him , and besought him with team , upbraiding him for departing from them . 
But , said he , why labour ye in vain ? No longer hope to have me to your king . 
Yet gave he way to their much opposition , and turned again to his palace . 
And , when he had assembled all the folk , he signified his will . 
Then with oath he confirmed his word , that he would dwell with them not one day more . 
And now behold I go the road that I have long time desired , and all ye shall see m y face no more . 
Then did the king take that Barachias , of whom we have already spoken , saying , This is he , brethren , whom I appoint to be your king . 
Therewith he prayed for the clergy and all the flock , asking of God succour for them and salvation , and all that might fitly be asked for their welfare . 
And even as thou wast before me in the knowledge of God , and didst serve him with a pure conscience , so now also show the more zeal in pleasing him . 
For , as thou hast received of God a mighty sovereignty , thou owest him the greater repayment . 
Render therefore to thy Benefactor the debt of thanksgiving , by the keeping of his holy commandments and by turning aside from every path whose end is destruction . 
For it is with kingdoms as with ships . 
If one of the sailors blunder it bringeth but small damage to the crew . 
But if the steersman err , he causeth the whole ship to perish . 
Even so it is with sovranty if a subject err , he harmeth himself more than the state . 
But if the king err , he causeth injury to the whole realm . 
Therefore , as one that shall render strict account , if thou neglect aught of thy duty , guard thyself with all diligence in that which is good . 
Hate all pleasure that draweth into sin for , saith the Apostle , Follow peace with all men , and holiness , without which no man shall see the Lord . 
To change with every change of affairs betokeneth an unstable heart . 
But be thou steadfast , wholly established upon that which is good . 
And which commandments above all shouldest thou observe ? Blessed are the merciful , for they shall obtain mercy , and Be ye merciful , as your heavenly Father is merciful . 
For the fulfilment of this commandment , above all , is required of them that are in high authority . 
And , soothly , the holder of great authority ought to imitate the giver of that authority to the best of his ability . 
And herein shall he best imitate God , by considering that nothing is to be preferred before showing mercy . 
Nay , further , nothing so surely draweth the subject to loyalty toward his Sovereign as the grace of charity bestowed on such as need it . 
For the service that cometh from fear is flattery in disguise , with the pretence of respect cozening them that pay heed to it and the unwilling subject rebelleth when he findeth occasion . 
Whereas he that is held by the ties of loyalty is steadfast in his obedience to the ruling power . 
Wherefore be thou easy of access to all and open thine ears unto the poor , that thou mayest find the ear of God open unto thee . 
For as we are to our fellow servants , such shall we find our Master to us ward . 
And , like as we do hear others , so shall we be heard ourselves and , as we see , so shall we be seen by the divine all seeing eye . 
Therefore pay we first mercy for mercy , that we may obtain like for like . 
So we must take good heed lest a like fate betide us . 
But let us forgive every debt , and cast all anger out of our hearts , in order that our many debts , too , may be forgiven . 
Beside this , and before all things , keep thou that good thing which is committed to thy trust , the holy Word of faith wherein thou hast been taught and instructed . 
And when he had thus spoken , he kneeled down , as it is written , and prayed again in tears . 
And he turned him round , and kissed Barachias , whom he had chosen to their king , and all the officers . 
Then came a scene fit , belike , to make one weep . 
Wo is us , cried they , for this grievous calamity ! They called him , Master , Father , Saviour , Benefactor . 
Through thine , said they , we learned to know God , and were redeemed from error , and found rest from every ill . 
What remaineth us after thou art gone ? What evils shall not befall us ? Thus saying , they smote upon their breasts , and bewailed the misfortune that had overtaken them . 
But he with words of comfort hushed their sobs , and promised to be with them still in the spirit though he might no longer abide with them in the body . 
And when he had thus spoken , in the sight of all he went forth from the palace . 
And immediately all the people followed him . 
They despaired of his return they ran from the city , as from a sight that they could no longer endure . 
And some of the hotter spirits also followed afar off weeping , until the shades of night parted them one from another . 
Thus this noble man went forth from his palace rejoicing , as when after long exile a man returneth with joy to his own country . 
Outwardly he wore the robes that he was wont to wear , but beneath was the hair shirt which Barlaam had given him . 
These were the thoughts of his heart continually , and he communed with God , being made one with him by prayer and sublime meditation . 
And thus eagerly he pursued the road , hoping to arrive at the place where Barlaam dwelt . 
But whilst he found some food , though scanty and insufficient , from the herbs , of water he was quite destitute in that waterless and dry desert . 
But desire of Christ conquered nature , and the thirst wherewith he thirsted for God bedewed the heat of thirst for water . 
In a word , he raised a great dust cloud of reasonings in his mind , exactly , I ween , as it hath been recorded of the mighty Antony . 
, then was the adversary ashamed of having fallen in the first assault . 
, and endeavoured to overthrow and terrify Ioasaph by means of divers apparitions . 
Sometimes he appeared to him in black , and such indeed he is sometimes with a drawn sword he leapt upon him , and threatened to strike , unless he speedily turned back . 
At other times he assumed the shapes of all manner of beasts , roaring and making a terrible din and bellowing or again he became a dragon , adder , or basilisk . 
The Lord is on my side , and I shall see my desire upon mine enemies . 
Let mine enemies be ashamed and turned backward let them be driven and put to shame suddenly . 
Thus speaking , and girding on that invincible weapon , the sign of the Cross , he made vain the devil's shows . 
For straightway all the beasts and creeping things disappeared , like as the smoke vanisheth , and like as wax melteth at the fire . 
And he , strong in the might of Christ , went on his way rejoicing and giving thanks unto the Lord . 
But he overcame both , for love , as saith the scripture , cast out fear , and longing made toil light . 
Thus he wrestled with many sundry misfortunes and hardships until , after many days , he arrived at that desert of the land of Senaar , wherein Barlaam dwelt . 
There also he found water and quenched the burning of his thirst . 
But , being kindled by love of her Master , this adamantine and indomitable soul bore these annoyances more easily than other men bear their pleasures . 
Because of the multitude of mine offences , deprive me not of this good thing but grant me to see him , and fight with him the ascetic fight . 
By the grace of God , he found a cave , by following footsteps that led thither . 
There he met a monk pursuing a hermit life . 
Him he embraced and saluted tenderly . 
He asked where to find Barlaam's dwelling , and told him his own tale , laying all bare . 
Of him then he learned the abode of the man whom he sought , and thither went foot hot , as when a cunning hunter happeneth on the tracks of his game . 
For when divine love hath broken into a soul , it proveth hotter and stronger than the natural . 
And Ioasaph recognised his spiritual father , for his features were , for the more part , the same . 
But , when they had done with embracing and greeting , they sat them down and conversed . 
Then stood they up for to pray and to perform the sacred services . 
Then also remembered they that it was meal time , and Barlaam spread his lavish table , laden with spiritual dainties , but with little to attract the palate of sense . 
These were uncooked worts , and a few dates , planted and tended by Barlaam's own hands , such as are found in the same desert , and wild herbs . 
From that time forward he mortified all his sinful passions , and made the will of the flesh as subject to the spirit as slave is to his master . 
He was altogether forgetful of comforts or repose , and tyrannized over sleep as over a wicked servant . 
For he took only so much of that coarse and cheerless food as would keep him alive else had he died afore his time , and forfeited the reward of his well doing . 
He subdued himself to watchings , as though he were without flesh and body . 
For this is the end of monastic life , never to be found idle in spiritual employment and well herein did this noble and active runner of the heavenly race order his way . 
For I fear lest perchance the darksome army of fiends may stand in the way of my soul , by reason of the multitude of mine ignorances . 
So do thou , my son , think no scorn of the laboriousness of thy religious life , neither dread the length of the time , nor the tricks of devils . 
Wherefore , rejoice in the Lord alway for he hath chosen and separated thee out of the world , and set thee , as it were before his countenance . 
The Master , who hath called thee with a holy calling , is alway near . 
Be careful for nothing , but in everything , by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let thy requests be made known unto God . 
For he himself hath said , I will never leave thee , nor forsake thee . 
Meditate upon these things , casting down imaginations , and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God , and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ . 
And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep thy heart and thoughts in Christ Jesus . 
When blessed Barlaam had so said , Ioasaph's tears knew no measure , but , like water from the brimming fountain , bedewed him and the ground whereon he sat . 
But , I beseech thee , pray the Lord to take me also together with thee from life . 
For myself , I am , as I reckon , well nigh an hundred winters old , and have now spent seventy and five years in this desert place . 
Therefore , beloved , gladly accept the decrees of God . 
What God hath ordered , who , of men , can scatter ? Endure , then , under the protection of his grace . 
With these words , and many others , full worthy of that sanctified soul and inspired tongue , did the old man comfort Ioasaph's anguished soul . 
Then he sent him unto certain brethren , which abode a long way off , for to fetch the things fitting for the Holy Sacrifice . 
So when Ioasaph had manfully finished his long journey , and had brought the things required for the Holy Sacrifice , saintly Barlaam offered up to God the unbloody Sacrifice . 
When he had communicated himself , and also given to Ioasaph of the undefiled Mysteries of Christ , he rejoiced in the Spirit . 
Thus until even tide and all night long did Barlaam converse with Ioasaph , who wept tears that could not be stayed , and could not bear the parting . 
Defend also this thy faithful servant , before whom thou hast granted to me , thine unprofitable servant , to stand . 
Thus prayed he , and in fatherly wise embraced Ioasaph , and saluted him with an holy kiss . 
Then did Ioasaph embrace the good father , with all the devotion and sorrow that can be told , and washed his corpse with his tears . 
Have mercy upon me , and hear me , for I seek thee with all my heart . 
My soul hath sought for thee O hide not thy face from me , and turn not away in anger from thy servant . 
Teach me thy way , O Lord , and lead me in the right way because of mine enemies . 
Deliver me not over unto the souls of them that afflict me for I have been cast upon thee ever since I was born thou art my God even from my mother's womb . 
O go not from me , because , except thee , there is none to help me . 
For lo , I set the hope of my soul upon the ocean of thy mercies . 
Thus prayed he , and sat him down nigh the sepulchre , a weeping . 
It is my lot to dwell in the mid most street of the city , a street that flasheth with light supernal . 
Again Ioasaph thought he asked Barlaam to bring him to his own habitation , and , in friendly wise , to shew him the sights thereof . 
But Barlaam said that his time was not yet come to win those habitations , while he was under the burden of the flesh . 
Hereupon Ioasaph awoke out of sleep , but his soul was still full of that light and ineffable glory and greatly wondering , he raised to his Lord a song of thanksgiving . 
And he continued to the end , verily leading on earth the life of an angel , and after the death of his aged friend using himself to severer austerity . 
And again , My soul cleaveth to thee thy right hand hath upholden me . 
For verily Ioasaph's soul clave to Christ , being knit to him in indissoluble union . 
It was the same that once pointed out to Ioasaph his way to Barlaam . 
There he descried Barlaam and Ioasaph lying , as they had been in life . 
Their bodies had not lost their former hue , but were whole and uncorrupt , together with their garments . 
And with splendour and much solemnity they laid their bodies in the Church which Ioasaph had built from the very foundation . 
And many miracles and cures , during the translation and deposition of their relics , as also in later times , did the Lord work by his holy servants . 
