At a young age , Charlotte had been led out of the Canadian backwoods by her widowed mother and taken to Ireland , where their relatives lived . 
This experience had strengthened her character and prepared her for single parenthood . 
Charlotte cared passionately for her children and was perhaps overly protective of her son . 
Nice was like paradise to Henry , who marveled at the city's affluence and beauty as he played in the warm sun . 
After several more excursions to the continent , Stacpoole was sent to Portarlington , a bleak boarding school more than miles from Kingstown . 
In contrast to his sisters , the Portarlington boys were noisy and uncouth . 
, the boys abused him mentally and physically , making him feel like a little Arthur in a cage of baboons . 
One night , he escaped through an adjacent girls' school and returned to Kingstown , only to be betrayed by his family and dragged back to school by his eldest sister . 
When his family moved to London , he was taken out of Portarlington and enrolled at Malvern College , a progressive school with refined students and plenty of air and sunshine . 
Keepers of Piers Plowman's visions Through the sunshine and the snow . 
This environment encouraged his interest in literature and writing . 
The idyll ended , however , when Stacpoole began his medical training . 
At his mother's prodding , he entered the medical school at St . 
Twice a day , he had to traverse a park frequented by perambulating nursemaids , and he became romantically involved with one of them . 
When his mother discovered their affair , she insisted that he transfer to University College , and he complied . 
More interested in literature than corpses , Stacpoole began to neglect his studies and miss classes , especially the required dissections . 
Finally , the dean of the medical school confronted him , and their argument drove Stacpoole to St . 
Mary's Hospital , where he completed his medical training and qualified L. S. A. in . 
, collecting information for future stories . 
, a tragic novel about two look alikes , one rich , the other poor , who switch places on a whim . 
Bewildered by the novel's lack of success , Stacpoole consulted his friendly muse , Pearl Craigie , alias John Oliver Hobbes , who suggested a comic rather than tragic treatment . 
, a commercially successful comic novel about a down and out American who impersonates his wealthy look alike in England . 
, recounts a French boy's eerie relationship with a patricidal doppelganger . 
and a descendant of the murder victim . 
She falls in love with Gerald Wilder , a man disguised as a woman , who is both a reincarnated murder victim and the descendant of the murderer . 
, which also killed The Rapin , a novel about an art student in Paris . 
Stacpoole spent the summer of in Sommerset , where he took over the medical practice of an ailing country doctor . 
, a novel about an old fashioned physician practicing medicine in rural England . 
It is the best book I have written , Stacpoole declared more than forty years later . 
In , two events occurred that altered the course of Stacpoole's life he wrote The Blue Lagoon and he married Margaret Robson . 
Unable to sleep one night , he found himself thinking about and envying the caveman , who in his primitiveness was able to marvel at such commonplace phenomena as sunsets and thunderstorms . 
Civilized , technological man had unveiled these mysteries with his telescopes and weather balloons , so that they were no longer nameless wonders to be feared and contemplated . 
As a doctor , Stacpoole had witnessed countless births and deaths , and these events no longer seemed miraculous to him . 
He conceived the idea of two children growing up alone on an island and experiencing storms , death , and birth in almost complete ignorance and innocence . 
The next morning , he started writing The Blue Lagoon . 
The exercise was therapeutic because he was able to experience the wonders of life and death vicariously through his characters . 
The Blue Lagoon is the story of two cousins , Dicky and Emmeline Lestrange , stranded on a remote island with a beautiful lagoon . 
As children , they are cared for by Paddy Button , a portly sailor who drinks himself to death after only two and a half years in paradise . 
Frightened and confused by the man's gruesome corpse , the children flee to another part of Palm Tree Island . 
Over a period of five years , they grow up and eventually fall in love . 
Sex and birth are as mysterious to them as death , but they manage to copulate instinctively and conceive a child . 
The birth is especially remarkable fifteen year old Emmeline , alone in the jungle , loses consciousness and awakes to find a baby boy on the ground near her . 
, the Lestranges live in familial bliss until they are unexpectedly expelled from their tropical Eden . 
Seagulls screamed about them , the boat rocked and swayed . 
Dick shouted with excitement , and Emmeline shut her eyes TIGHT . 
Then , as though a door had been swiftly and silently closed , the sound of the surf became suddenly less . 
The boat floated on an even keel she opened her eyes and found herself in Wonderland . 
This direct reference to Wonderland prepares the reader for the many parallels that follow . 
When their adventures begin , both girls are about the same age , Alice seven and a half , Emmeline exactly eight . 
Just as Alice joins a tea party in Wonderland , Emmeline plays with her tiny tea set on the beach after they land . 
Emmeline's former pet , like the Cheshire Cat , had white stripes and a white chest , and rings down its tail and died showing its teeth . 
The Poetry of Learning chapter echoes Alice's dialogue with the caterpillar . 
Like the wily creature smoking a hookah , Paddy smokes a pipe and shouts Hurroo ! as the children teach him to write his name in the sand . 
The children lose all count of time , just as the Mad Hatter does . 
Whereas Alice grows nine feet taller , Dick sprouts two inches taller and Emmeline twice as plump . 
Like the baby in the Pig and Pepper , Hannah sneezes at the first sight of Dicky . 
The novel is artfully littered with references to wonder , curiosity , and strangeness all evidence of Stacpoole's conscious effort to invoke and honor his Victorian predecessor . 
Stacpoole presented The Blue Lagoon to Publisher T. Fisher Unwin in September and went to Cumberland to assist another ailing doctor in his practice . 
, and waited anxiously for their wedding day . 
On December , , the couple were married and spent their honeymoon at Stebbing Park , a friend's country house in Essex , about three miles from the village of Stebbing . 
It was there that they stumbled upon Rose Cottage , where Stacpoole lived for several years before he moved to Cliff Dene on the Isle of Wight in the s . 
Published in January , The Blue Lagoon was an immediate success , both with reviewers and the public . 
This tale of the discovery of love , and innocent mating , is as fresh as the ozone that made them strong , declared one reviewer . 
Another claimed that for once the title of romance , found in so many modern stories , is really justified . 
The novel was reprinted more than twenty times in the next twelve years and remained popular in other forms for more than eighty years . 
Norman MacOwen and Charlton Mann adapted the story as a play , which ran for performances in London from August , , to April , . 
Film versions of the novel were made in , , and . 
Stacpoole also wrote two successful sequels The Garden of God and The Gates of Morning . 
These three books and two others were combined to form The Blue Lagoon Omnibus in . 
The Garden of God was filmed as Return to the Blue Lagoon in . 
This Gutenberg etext of The Blue Lagoon A Romance is based on the first American edition published by J. B. Lippincott Company of Philadelphia . 
The Blue lagoon A Romance by H. de Vere Stacpoole CONTENTS BOOK I PART I I. WHERE THE SLUSH LAMP BURNS II . 
THE SHADOW AND THE FIRE IV . 
AND LIKE A DREAM DISSOLVED V. VOICES HEARD IN THE MIST VI . 
DAWN ON A WIDE , WIDE SEA VII . 
STORY OF THE PIG AND THE BILLY GOAT VIII . 
S H E N A N D O A H IX . 
SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT X. THE TRAGEDY OF THE BOATS PART II XI . 
THE LAKE OF AZURE XIII . 
DEATH VEILED WITH LICHEN XIV . 
ECHOES OF FAIRY LAND XV . 
FAIR PICTURES IN THE BLUE PART III XVI . 
THE POETRY OF LEARNING XVII . 
STARLIGHT ON THE FOAM XX . 
THE DREAMER ON THE REEF XXI . 
THE GARLAND OF FLOWERS XXII . 
THEY MOVE AWAY BOOK II PART I I. UNDER THE ARTU TREE II . 
HALF CHILD HALF SAVAGE III . 
THE DEMON OF THE REEF IV . 
WHAT BEAUTY CONCEALED V. THE SOUND OF A DRUM VI . 
SAILS UPON THE SEA VII . 
THE SLEEP OF PARADISE PART II X. AN ISLAND HONEYMOON XI . 
THE VANISHING OF EMMELINE XII . 
THE LAGOON OF FIRE XVI . 
THE KEEPER OF THE LAGOON XXI . 
THE HAND OF THE SEA XXII . 
TOGETHER BOOK III I. MAD LESTRANGE II . 
THE SECRET OF THE AZURE III . 
DUE SOUTH THE BLUE LAGOON BOOK I PART I CHAPTER I WHERE THE SLUSH LAMP BURNS Mr Button was seated on a sea chest with a fiddle under his left ear . 
He was playing the Shan van vaught , and accompanying the tune , punctuating it , with blows of his left heel on the fo'cs'le deck . 
O the Frinch are in the bay , Says the Shan van vaught . 
He was dressed in dungaree trousers , a striped shirt , and a jacket baize green in parts from the influence of sun and salt . 
A typical old shell back , round shouldered , hooked of finger a figure with strong hints of a crab about it . 
Left handed Pat , was his fo'cs'le name not because he was left handed , but simply because everything he did he did wrong or nearly so . 
Reefing or furling , or handling a slush tub if a mistake was to be made , he made it . 
Nearly over the musician's head swung a hammock from which hung a leg other hammocks hanging in the semi gloom called up suggestions of lemurs and arboreal bats . 
The Northumberland had experienced a terrible rounding of the Horn . 
Mr Button finished his tune with a sweep of the bow , and drew his right coat sleeve across his forehead . 
Then he took out a sooty pipe , filled it with tobacco , and lit it . 
It vas about a green thing , came a sleepy Dutch voice from a bunk . 
Oh , a Leprachaun , you mane . 
Sure , me mother's sister had one down in Connaught . 
Like ? Sure , it was like a Leprachaun and what else would it be like ? What like vas that ? persisted the voice . 
It was like a little man no bigger than a big forked radish , an' as green as a cabbidge . 
Me a'nt had one in her house down in Connaught in the ould days . 
He was a Troll , murmured the Dutch voice . 
I'm tellin' you he was a Leprachaun , and there's no knowin' the divilments he'd be up to . 
Wisht he was here ! murmured a voice from a bunk near the knightheads . 
He would not , said Mr Button nor you afther me . 
Be damned to the grog and thim that sells it ! It's all darned easy to talk , said Ohio . 
You curse the grog at sea when you can't get it set you ashore , and you're bung full . 
Pat , she says , first time I come home from say rowlin' , storms you may escape , an wimmen you may escape , but the potheen 'ill have you . 
Forty year ago forty year ago ! Well , said Ohio , it hasn't had you yet . 
No , replied Mr Button , but it will . 
CHAPTER II UNDER THE STARS It was a wonderful night up on deck , filled with all the majesty and beauty of starlight and a tropic calm . 
Down in the cabin or saloon , as it was called by courtesy were seated the three passengers of the ship one reading at the table , two playing on the floor . 
The man at the table , Arthur Lestrange , was seated with his large , deep sunken eyes fixed on a book . 
He was most evidently in consumption very near , indeed , to reaping the result of that last and most desperate remedy , a long sea voyage . 
Dick , Lestrange's little son , eight and a bit , was somewhere under the table . 
As he sat reading , the cabin door opened , and appeared an angular female form . 
This was Mrs Stannard , the stewardess , and Mrs Stannard meant bedtime . 
Dicky , said Mr Lestrange , closing his book , and raising the table cloth a few inches , bedtime . 
Oh , not yet , daddy ! came a sleep freighted voice from under the table I ain't ready . 
Then she presented her brow solemnly to her uncle , received a kiss , and vanished , led by the hand into a cabin on the port side of the saloon . 
My box , said she and as she spoke , holding it up as if to prove its safety , the little plain face altered to the face of an angel . 
Then she vanished with her box , and Mr Lestrange resumed his book . 
This box of Emmeline's , I may say in parenthesis , had given more trouble aboard ship than all of the rest of the passengers' luggage put together . 
The trouble of the thing was that it was frequently being lost . 
Then she would absolutely haunt the ship . 
Strangely enough it was Paddy Button who usually found it . 
He who was always doing the wrong thing in the eyes of men , generally did the right thing in the eyes of children . 
Children , in fact , when they could get at Mr Button , went for him con amore . 
He was as attractive to them as a Punch and Judy show or a German band almost . 
Mr Lestrange after a while closed the book he was reading , looked around him and sighed . 
Lestrange was staring at the reflection of his own face in one of these mirrors fixed just opposite to where he sat . 
His emaciation was terrible , and it was just perhaps at this moment that he first recognised the fact that he must not only die , but die soon . 
As he leaned against the bulwark rail to recover his breath , the splendour and beauty of the Southern night struck him to the heart with a cruel pang . 
He took his seat on a deck chair and gazed up at the Milky Way , that great triumphal arch built of suns that the dawn would sweep away like a dream . 
In the Milky Way , near the Southern Cross , occurs a terrible circular abyss , the Coal Sack . 
So sharply defined is it , so suggestive of a void and bottomless cavern , that the contemplation of it afflicts the imaginative mind with vertigo . 
To the naked eye it is as black and as dismal as death , but the smallest telescope reveals it beautiful and populous with stars . 
Then he became aware of a figure promenading the quarter deck . 
It was the Old Man . 
A sea captain is always the old man , be his age what it may . 
Captain Le Farges' age might have been forty five . 
He was a sailor of the Jean Bart type , of French descent , but a naturalised American . 
I don't know where the wind's gone , said the captain as he drew near the man in the deck chair . 
I guess it's blown a hole in the firmament , and escaped somewheres to the back of beyond . 
It's been a long voyage , said Lestrange and I'm thinking , Captain , it will be a very long voyage for me . 
My port's not 'Frisco I feel it . 
Don't you be thinking that sort of thing , said the other , taking his seat in a chair close by . 
There's no manner of use forecastin' the weather a month ahead . 
Now we're in warm latitoods , your glass will rise steady , and you'll be as right and spry as any one of us , before we fetch the Golden Gates . 
I'm thinking about the children , said Lestrange , seeming not to hear the captain's words . 
Should anything happen to me before we reach port , I should like you to do something for me . 
It's only this dispose of my body without without the children knowing . 
It has been in my mind to ask you this for some days . 
Captain , those children know nothing of death . 
Le Farge moved uneasily in his chair . 
Little Emmeline's mother died when she was two . 
Her father my brother died before she was born . 
Dicky never knew a mother she died giving him birth . 
I was told I'd go to hell when I died if I wasn't a good child . 
And can a diseased father have healthy children ? I guess not . 
I don't know whether I have done right , but I have done it for the best . 
They had a cat , and one day Dicky came in to me and said Father , pussy's in the garden asleep , and I can't wake her . 
So I just took him out for a walk there was a circus in the town , and I took him to it . 
It so filled his mind that he quite forgot the cat . 
Next day he asked for her . 
I did not tell him she was buried in the garden , I just said she must have run away . 
In a week he had forgotten all about her children soon forget . 
Ay , that's true , said the sea captain . 
But 'pears to me they must learn some time they've got to die . 
You will take them back to Boston I have here , in a letter , the name of a lady who will care for them . 
Dicky will be well off , as far as worldly goods are concerned , and so will Emmeline . 
Just tell them I've gone on board another ship children soon forget . 
I'll do what you ask , said the seaman . 
The moon was over the horizon now , and the Northumberland lay adrift in a river of silver . 
Every spar was distinct , every reef point on the great sails , and the decks lay like spaces of frost cut by shadows black as ebony . 
As the two men sat without speaking , thinking their own thoughts , a little white figure emerged from the saloon hatch . 
She was a professed sleepwalker a past mistress of the art . 
Scarcely had she stepped into dreamland than she had lost her precious box , and now she was hunting for it on the decks of the Northumberland . 
Mr Lestrange put his finger to his lips , took off his shoes and silently followed her . 
CHAPTER III THE SHADOW AND THE FIRE It was the fourth day of the long calm . 
An awning had been rigged up on the poop for the passengers , and under it sat Lestrange , trying to read , and the children trying to play . 
The heat and monotony had reduced even Dicky to just a surly mass , languid in movement as a grub . 
As for Emmeline , she seemed dazed . 
The rag doll lay a yard away from her on the poop deck , unnursed even the wretched box and its whereabouts she seemed to have quite forgotten . 
Daddy ! suddenly cried Dick , who had clambered up , and was looking over the after rail . 
What ? Fish ! Lestrange rose to his feet , came aft and looked over the rail . 
Down in the vague green of the water something moved , something pale and long a ghastly form . 
It vanished and yet another came , neared the surface , and displayed itself more fully . 
Lestrange saw its eyes , he saw the dark fin , and the whole hideous length of the creature a shudder ran through him as he clasped Dicky . 
Ain't he fine ? said the child . 
I guess , daddy , I'd pull him aboard if I had a hook . 
What's they called , daddy ? persisted Dick , as his father took him down from the rail , and led him back to the chair . 
Sharks , said Lestrange , whose face was covered with perspiration . 
The sea had disclosed to him a vision . 
It was three bells half past three in the afternoon and the ship's bell had just rung out . 
The sun has dimmed a bit , said he I can a'most look at it . 
Glass steady enough there's a fog coming up ever seen a Pacific fog ? No , never . 
Well , you won't want to see another , replied the mariner , shading his eyes and fixing them upon the sea line . 
The sea line away to starboard had lost somewhat its distinctness , and over the day an almost imperceptible shade had crept . 
The captain suddenly turned from his contemplation of the sea and sky , raised his head and sniffed . 
Something is burning somewhere smell it ? Seems to me like an old mat or summat . 
It's that swab of a steward , maybe if he isn't breaking glass , he's upsetting lamps and burning holes in the carpet . 
Bless MY soul , I'd sooner have a dozen Mary Anns an' their dustpans round the place than one tomfool steward like Jenkins . 
He went to the saloon hatch . 
Below there ! Ay , ay , sir . 
What are you burning ? I an't burnin' northen , sir . 
Tell you , I smell it ! There's northen burnin' here , sir . 
Neither is there it's all on deck . 
Something in the galley , maybe rags , most likely , they've thrown on the fire . 
Le Farge climbed on to the poop . 
I don't know whether it's my weakness that's affecting my eyes , but there seems to me something strange about the main mast . 
The main mast near where it entered the deck , and for some distance up , seemed in motion a corkscrew movement most strange to watch from the shelter of the awning . 
This apparent movement was caused by a spiral haze of smoke so vague that one could only tell of its existence from the mirage like tremor of the mast round which it curled . 
My God ! cried Le Farge , as he sprang from the poop and rushed forward . 
Lestrange followed him slowly , stopping every moment to clutch the bulwark rail and pant for breath . 
He heard the shrill bird like notes of the bosun's pipe . 
He saw the hands emerging from the forecastle , like bees out of a hive he watched them surrounding the main hatch . 
He watched the tarpaulin and locking bars removed . 
He saw the hatch opened , and a burst of smoke black , villainous smoke ascend to the sky , solid as a plume in the windless air . 
His first thought was of the children , his second of the boats . 
In the battering off Cape Horn the Northumberland lost several of her boats . 
There were left the long boat , a quarter boat , and the dinghy . 
Mrs Stannard was just coming out of the children's cabin . 
Are the children lying down , Mrs Stannard ? asked Lestrange , almost breathless from the excitement and exertion of the last few minutes . 
The woman glanced at him with frightened eyes . 
He looked like the very herald of disaster . 
For if they are , and you have undressed them , then you must put their clothes on again . 
The ship is on fire , Mrs Stannard . 
Good God , sir ! Listen ! said Lestrange . 
From a distance , thin , and dreary as the crying of sea gulls on a desolate beach , came the clanking of the pumps . 
CHAPTER IV AND LIKE A DREAM DISSOLVED Before the woman had time to speak a thunderous step was heard on the companion stairs , and Le Farge broke into the saloon . 
The man's face was injected with blood , his eyes were fixed and glassy like the eyes of a drunkard , and the veins stood on his temples like twisted cords . 
Get those children ready ! he shouted , as he rushed into his own cabin . 
Get you all ready boats are being swung out and victualled . 
Half mad he seemed , and half mad he was with the knowledge of the terrible thing that was stowed amidst the cargo . 
The covers had been stripped from the boats , kegs of water and bags of biscuit placed in them . 
The dinghy was rather a larger boat than the ordinary ships' dinghy , and possessed a small mast and long sail . 
Two sailors stood ready to man the falls , and Paddy Button was just turning to trundle forward again when the captain seized him . 
Into the dinghy with you , he cried , and row these children and the passenger out a mile from the ship two miles , three miles , make an offing . 
Next moment Mr Button was in the boat . 
Emmeline was handed to him , pale of face and wide eyed , and clasping something wrapped in a little shawl then Dick , and then Mr Lestrange was helped over . 
No room for more ! cried Le Farge . 
Your place will be in the long boat , Mrs Stannard , if we have to leave the ship . 
Lower away , lower away ! The boat sank towards the smooth blue sea , kissed it and was afloat . 
Now Mr Button , before joining the ship at Boston , had spent a good while lingering by the quay , having no money wherewith to enjoy himself in a tavern . 
He had seen something of the lading of the Northumberland , and heard more from a stevedore . 
No sooner had he cast off the falls and seized the oars , than his knowledge awoke in his mind , living and lurid . 
He gave a whoop that brought the two sailors leaning over the side . 
Bullies ! Ay , ay ! Run for your lives I've just rimimbered there's two bar'ls of blastin' powther in the houldt . 
Then he bent to his oars , as no man ever bent before . 
Lestrange , sitting in the stern sheets clasping Emmeline and Dick , saw nothing for a moment after hearing these words . 
Dick put his finger over the side , so that it made a ripple in the water . 
Emmeline , with one hand clasped in her uncle's , watched Mr Button with a grave sort of half pleasure . 
He certainly was a sight worth watching . 
His soul was filled with tragedy and terror . 
His Celtic imagination heard the ship blowing up , saw himself and the little dinghy blown to pieces nay , saw himself in hell , being toasted by divils . 
But tragedy and terror could find no room for expression on his fortunate or unfortunate face . 
Behind lay the ship , a picture not without its lighter side . 
The long boat and the quarter boat , lowered with a rush and seaborne by the mercy of Providence , were floating by the side of the Northumberland . 
From the ship men were casting themselves overboard like water rats , swimming in the water like ducks , scrambling on board the boats anyhow . 
From the half opened main hatch the black smoke , mixed now with sparks , rose steadily and swiftly and spitefulIy , as if driven through the half closed teeth of a dragon . 
A mile away beyond the Northumberland stood the fog bank . 
It looked solid , like a vast country that had suddenly and strangely built itself on the sea a country where no birds sang and no trees grew . 
A country with white , precipitous cliffs , solid to look at as the cliffs of Dover . 
Blow up or blow down , I'm spint , don't ax me , I'm spint . 
Mr Lestrange , white as a ghost , but recovered somewhat from his first horror , gave the Spent One time to recover himself and turned to look at the ship . 
She seemed a great distance off , and the boats , well away from her , were making at a furious pace towards the dinghy . 
Dick was still playing with the water , but Emmeline's eyes were entirely occupied with Paddy Button . 
New things were always of vast interest to her contemplative mind , and these evolutions of her old friend were eminently new . 
She produced a Tangerine orange , and leaning forward she touched the Spent One's head with it . 
Daddy , said Dick , who had been looking astern , there's clouds near the ship . 
In an incredibly short space of time the solid cliffs of fog had broken . 
The faint wind that had banked it had pierced it , and was now making pictures and devices of it , most wonderful and weird to see . 
And all with a terrible languor of movement . 
Vast and lazy and sinister , yet steadfast of purpose as Fate or Death , the fog advanced , taking the world for its own . 
Why's the ship smoking like that ? asked Dick . 
What frightens you , Emmy ? he asked , drawing her to him . 
Shapes , replied Emmeline , nestling up to his side . 
Oh , Glory be to God ! gasped the old sailor , suddenly resting on his oars . 
Will yiz look at the fog that's comin' I think we had better wait here for the boats , said Mr Lestrange we are far enough now to be safe if anything happens . 
Ay , ay , replied the oarsman , whose wits had returned . 
Blow up or blow down , she won't hit us from here . 
Daddy , said Dick , when are we going back ? I want my tea . 
We aren't going back , my child , replied his father . 
The ship's on fire we are waiting for another ship . 
Where's the other ship ? asked the child , looking round at the horizon that was clear . 
We can't see it yet , replied the unhappy man , but it will come . 
The long boat and the quarter boat were slowly approaching . 
Now the wind struck the dinghy . 
It was like a wind from fairyland , almost imperceptible , chill , and dimming the sun . 
As it struck the dinghy , the fog took the distant ship . 
CHAPTER V VOICES HEARD IN THE MIST The sun became fainter still , and vanished . 
The long boat was leading by a good way . 
When she was within hailing distance the captain's voice came . 
Dinghy ahoy ! Ahoy ! Fetch alongside here ! The long boat ceased rowing to wait for the quarter boat that was slowly creeping up . 
She was a heavy boat to pull at all times , and now she was overloaded . 
The wrath of Captain Le Farge with Paddy Button for the way he had stampeded the crew was profound , but he had not time to give vent to it . 
Here , get aboard us , Mr Lestrange ! said he , when the dinghy was alongside we have room for one . 
Mrs Stannard is in the quarter boat , and it's overcrowded she's better aboard the dinghy , for she can look after the kids . 
Come , hurry up , the smother is coming down on us fast . 
Ahoy ! to the quarter boat , hurry up , hurry up . 
The quarter boat had suddenly vanished . 
Mr Lestrange climbed into the long boat . 
Paddy pushed the dinghy a few yards away with the tip of a scull , and then lay on his oars waiting . 
Ahoy ! ahoy ! cried Le Farge . 
Ahoy ! came from the fog bank . 
Next moment the long boat and the dinghy vanished from each other's sight the great fog bank had taken them . 
Dinghy ahoy ! Ahoy ! Ahoy ! Don't be shoutin' together , or I'll not know which way to pull . 
Ahoy ! much more faint . 
What d'ye mane rowin' away from me ? a dozen strokes . 
Mr Button rested on his oars . 
Divil mend them I b'lave that was the long boat shoutin' . 
He took to his oars again and pulled vigorously . 
Paddy , came Dick's small voice , apparently from nowhere , where are we now ? Sure , we're in a fog where else would we be ? Don't you be affeared . 
I ain't affeared , but Em's shivering . 
Give her me coat , said the oarsman , resting on his oars and taking it off . 
Wrap it round her and when it's round her we'll all let one big halloo together . 
There's an ould shawl som'er in the boat , but I can't be after lookin' for it now . 
He held out the coat and an almost invisible hand took it at the same moment a tremendous report shook the sea and sky . 
There she goes , said Mr Button an' me old fiddle an' all . 
Don't be frightened , childer it's only a gun they're firin' for divarsion . 
Now we'll all halloo togither are yiz ready ? Ay , ay , said Dick , who was a picker up of sea terms . 
Halloo ! Halloo ! piped Dick and Emmeline . 
A faint reply came , but from where , it was difficult to say . 
The old man rowed a few strokes and then paused on his oars . 
It died out as she lost way , and silence closed round them like a ring . 
It has also this wizard peculiarity , that it grows with the sinking of the sun and the approach of darkness . 
The sun , could they have seen it , was now leaving the horizon . 
Then they waited , but there was no response . 
Mr Button ! came Emmeline's voice . 
What is it , honey ? I'm 'fraid . 
You wait wan minit till I find the shawl here it is , by the same token ! an' I'll wrap you up in it . 
He crept cautiously aft to the stern sheets and took Emmeline in his arms . 
Don't want the shawl , said Emmeline I'm not so much afraid in your coat . 
The rough , tobacco smelling old coat gave her courage somehow . 
Well , thin , keep it on . 
Dicky , are you cowld ? I've got into daddy's great coat he left it behind him . 
Well , thin , I'll put the shawl round me own shoulders , for it's cowld I am . 
I'll be rowin' again in a minit to keep meself warm . 
He buttoned the top button of the coat . 
I'm a'right , murmured Emmeline in a dreamy voice . 
Shut your eyes tight , replied Mr Button , or Billy Winker will be dridgin' sand in them . 
Shoheen , shoheen , shoheen , shoheen , Sho hu lo , sho hu lo . 
Shoheen , shoheen , shoheen , shoheen , Hush a by the babby . 
She's off , murmured Mr Button to himself , as the form in his arms relaxed . 
Then he laid her gently down beside Dick . 
He shifted forward , moving like a crab . 
Then he put his hand to his pocket for his pipe and tobacco and tinder box . 
They were in his coat pocket , but Emmeline was in his coat . 
To search for them would be to awaken her . 
The darkness of night was now adding itself to the blindness of the fog . 
The oarsman could not see even the thole pins . 
He sat adrift mind and body . 
He was , to use his own expression , moithered . 
Haunted by the mist , tormented by shapes . 
It was just in a fog like this that the Merrows could be heard disporting in Dunbeg bay , and off the Achill coast . 
Sporting and laughing , and hallooing through the mist , to lead unfortunate fishermen astray . 
For a moment he thought of awakening the children to keep him company , but he was ashamed . 
Then he took to the sculls again , and rowed by the feel of the water . 
The creak of the oars was like a companion's voice , the exercise lulled his fears . 
Now and again , forgetful of the sleeping children , he gave a halloo , and paused to listen . 
Then he continued rowing , long , steady , laborious strokes , each taking him further and further from the boats that he was never destined to sight again . 
CHAPTER VI DAWN ON A WIDE , WIDE SEA Is it aslape I've been ? said Mr Button , suddenly awaking with a start . 
He had shipped his oars just for a minute's rest . 
He must have slept for hours , for now , behold , a warm , gentle wind was blowing , the moon was shining , and the fog was gone . 
Is it dhraming I've been ? continued the awakened one . 
Where am I at all , at all ? O musha ! sure , here I am . 
O wirra ! wirra ! I dreamt I'd gone aslape on the main hatch and the ship was blown up with powther , and it's all come true . 
Mr Button ! came a small voice from the stern sheets . 
He filled a tin pannikin that was by the beaker of water , and gave her a drink . 
Then he took his pipe and tobacco from his coat pocket . 
She almost immediately fell asleep again beside Dick , who had not stirred or moved and the old sailor , standing up and steadying himself , cast his eyes round the horizon . 
Not a sign of sail or boat was there on all the moonlit sea . 
But open boats a few miles apart may be separated by long leagues in the course of a few hours . 
Nothing is more mysterious than the currents of the sea . 
A slight warm breeze was frosting the water , blending moonshine and star shimmer the ocean lay like a lake , yet the nearest mainland was perhaps a thousand miles away . 
The thoughts of youth may be long , long thoughts , but not longer than the thoughts of this old sailor man smoking his pipe under the stars . 
Thoughts as long as the world is round . 
Blazing bar rooms in Callao harbours over whose oily surfaces the sampans slipped like water beetles the lights of Macao the docks of London . 
I doubt if Paddy Button could have told you the name of the first ship he ever sailed in . 
Then he nodded off to sleep again , and when he awoke the moon had gone . 
Now in the eastern sky might have been seen a pale fan of light , vague as the wing of an ephemera . 
It vanished and changed back to darkness . 
The line of fire contracted into one increasing spot , the rim of the rising sun . 
Then the whole sea flashed like the harp of Apollo touched by the fingers of the god . 
The light was music to the soul . 
Daddy ! suddenly cried Dick , sitting up in the sunlight and rubbing his eyes with his open palms . 
Your daddy's as safe as if he was in hivin he'll be wid us in a minit , an' bring another ship along with him . 
So you're awake , are you , Em'line ? Emmeline , sitting up in the old pilot coat , nodded in reply without speaking . 
Another child might have supplemented Dick's enquiries as to her uncle by questions of her own , but she did not . 
Hurroo ! cried Dick , looking around at the blue and sparkling water , and banging with a stretcher on the bottom of the boat . 
I haven't a sponge or towel , but I'll just wash your face in salt wather and lave you to dry in the sun . 
He filled the bailing tin with sea water . 
I don't want to wash ! shouted Dick . 
Stick your face into the water in the tin , commanded Paddy . 
You wouldn't be going about the place with your face like a sut bag , would you ? Stick yours in ! commanded the other . 
Button did so , and made a hub bubbling noise in the water then he lifted a wet and streaming face , and flung the contents of the bailing tin overboard . 
Now you've lost your chance , said this arch nursery strategist , all the water's gone . 
There's more in the sea . 
There's no more to wash with , not till to morrow the fishes don't allow it . 
I want to wash , grumbled Dick . 
I want to stick my face in the tin , same's you did 'sides , Em hasn't washed . 
I don't mind , murmured Emmeline . 
Well , thin , said Mr Button , as if making a sudden resolve , I'll ax the sharks . 
He leaned over the boat's side , his face close to the surface of the water . 
Halloo there ! he shouted , and then bent his head sideways to listen the children also looked over the side , deeply interested . 
What did the shark say , Mr Button ? asked Emmeline . 
He said Take a bar'l full , an' welcome , Mister Button an' it's wishful I am I had a drop of the crathur to offer you this fine marnin' . 
Thin he popped his head under his fin and went aslape agin leastwise , I heard him snore . 
Emmeline nearly always Mr Buttoned her friend sometimes she called him Mr Paddy . 
As for Dick , it was always Paddy , pure and simple . 
Children have etiquettes of their own . 
It must often strike landsmen and landswomen that the most terrible experience when cast away at sea in an open boat is the total absence of privacy . 
It seems an outrage on decency on the part of Providence to herd people together so . 
There was a large bag of biscuits in the boat , and some tinned stuff mostly sardines . 
I have known a sailor to open a box of sardines with a tin tack . 
He was in prison , the sardines had been smuggled into him , and he had no can opener . 
Only his genius and a tin tack . 
Paddy had a jack knife , however , and in a marvellously short time a box of sardines was opened , and placed on the stern sheets beside some biscuits . 
These , with some water and Emmeline's Tangerine orange , which she produced and added to the common store , formed the feast , and they fell to . 
When they had finished , the remains were put carefully away , and they proceeded to step the tiny mast . 
The sailor , when the mast was in its place , stood for a moment resting his hand on it , and gazing around him over the vast and voiceless blue . 
The Pacific has three blues the blue of morning , the blue of midday , and the blue of evening . 
But the blue of morning is the happiest the happiest thing in colour sparkling , vague , newborn the blue of heaven and youth . 
What are you looking for , Paddy ? asked Dick . 
Aist it is I'll make a soldier's wind of it , and thrust to chance . 
He set the sail and came aft with the sheet . 
Then he shifted the rudder , lit a pipe , leaned luxuriously back and gave the bellying sail to the gentle breeze . 
His imagination dealt little with the future almost entirely influenced by his immediate surroundings , it could conjure up no fears from the scene now before it . 
The children were the same . 
Never was there a happier starting , more joy in a little boat . 
The terror of their position was as deeply veiled from them as eternity is veiled from you or me . 
But the sleep of the Pacific is only apparent . 
Emmeline's rag doll was a shocking affair from a hygienic or artistic standpoint . 
Its face was just inked on , it had no features , no arms yet not for all the dolls in the world would she have exchanged this filthy and nearly formless thing . 
She sat nursing it on one side of the helmsman , whilst Dick , on the other side , hung his nose over the water , on the look out for fish . 
Why do you smoke , Mr Button ? asked Emmeline , who had been watching her friend for some time in silence . 
To aise me thrubbles , replied Paddy . 
He was leaning back with one eye shut and the other fixed on the luff of the sail . 
He was in his element nothing to do but steer and smoke , warmed by the sun and cooled by the breeze . 
Look , Paddy ! An albicore a few cables lengths to port had taken a flying leap from the flashing sea , turned a complete somersault and vanished . 
It's an albicore takin' a buck lep . 
Hundreds I've seen before this he's bein' chased . 
What are you sayin' ? fish can't fly ! Where's the eyes in your head ? Are the gibblyums chasing them too ? asked Emmeline fearfully . 
No 'tis the Billy balloos that's afther thim . 
Don't be axin' me any more questions now , or I'll be tellin' you lies in a minit . 
When Dick would fret now and then , the old sailor would always devise some means of amusing him . 
Then he told them things . 
He had spent a year at Deal long ago , where a cousin of his was married to a boatman . 
Ay , ay , said Paddy they're mostly pink to start with , but they fade whin they're washed . 
It'd no teeth , said Emmeline , for I put my finger in to see . 
I wish I had a baby , said Emmeline , and I wouldn't send it back to the cabbage patch . 
Angels have wings , said Emmeline dreamily . 
And , pursued Dick , I told cook , and she said to Jane that daddy was always stuffing children up with something or 'nother . 
And I asked daddy to let me see him stuffing up a child and daddy said cook'd have to go away for saying that , and she went away next day . 
She had three big trunks and a box for her bonnet , said Emmeline , with a far away look as she recalled the incident . 
And the cabman asked her hadn't she any more trunks to put on his cab , and hadn't she forgot the parrot cage , said Dick . 
I wish I had a parrot in a cage , murmured Emmeline , moving slightly so as to get more in the shadow of the sail . 
And what in the world would you be doin' with a par't in a cage ? asked Mr Button . 
I'd let it out , replied Emmeline . 
Let me out , he'd say , and I'll give yiz a silver shilling . 
Pass it under the door , I'd answer him . 
Thin he'd stick the snout of him undher the door an' I'd hit it a clip with a stick , and he'd yell murther Irish . 
An' me mother'd come out an' baste me , an' well I desarved it . 
Away wid yiz ! says the billy goat . 
Away wid yourself ! says he . 
Whose you talkin' to ? says t'other . 
Who stole the eggs ? says the billy goat . 
Ax your ould grandmother ! says the pig . 
Ax me ould WHICH mother ? says the billy goat . 
CHAPTER VIII S H E N A N D O A H He had slept an hour and more when he was brought to his senses by a thin and prolonged shriek . 
It was Emmeline in a nightmare , or more properly a day mare , brought on by a meal of sardines and the haunting memory of the gibbly gobbly ums . 
and comforted , the mast was restepped . 
As Mr Button stood with his hand on the spar looking round him before going aft with the sheet , an object struck his eye some three miles ahead . 
Objects rather , for they were the masts and spars of a small ship rising from the water . 
Not a vestige of sail , just the naked spars . 
It might have been a couple of old skeleton trees jutting out of the water for all a landsman could have told . 
He stared at this sight for twenty or thirty seconds without speaking , his head projected like the head of a tortoise . 
Then he gave a wild Hurroo ! What is it , Paddy ? asked Dick . 
Ship ahoy ! ship ahoy ! Lie to till I be afther boardin' you . 
He crawled aft and took the tiller the breeze took the sail , and the boat forged ahead . 
Is it daddy's ship ? asked Dick , who was almost as excited as his friend . 
I dinno we'll see when we fetch her . 
Shall we go on her , Mr Button ? asked Emmeline . 
Ay will we , honey . 
Emmeline bent down , and fetching her parcel from under the seat , held it in her lap . 
As they drew nearer , the outlines of the ship became more apparent . 
She was a small brig , with stump topmasts , from the spars a few rags of canvas fluttered . 
It was apparent soon to the old sailor's eye what was amiss with her . 
It was easy enough to see that she was a timber ship , and that she had started a butt , flooded herself and been abandoned . 
Paddy lay on his oars within a few strokes of her . 
A few strokes brought them under the stern . 
The name of the ship was there in faded letters , also the port to which she belonged . 
There's letters on her , said Mr Button . 
But I can't make thim out . 
I can read them , said Dick . 
So c'n I , murmured Emmeline . 
S H E N A N D O A H , spelt Dick . 
What's that ? enquired Paddy . 
I don't know , replied Dick , rather downcastedly . 
There you are ! cried the oarsman in a disgusted manner , pulling the boat round to the starboard side of the brig . 
Then it was Dick's turn , and the children stood waiting whilst the old sailor brought the beaker of water , the biscuit , and the tinned stuff on board . 
It was a place to delight the heart of a boy , the deck of the Shenandoah forward right from the main hatchway it was laden with timber . 
Running rigging lay loose on the deck in coils , and nearly the whole of the quarter deck was occupied by a deck house . 
The place had a delightful smell of sea beach , decaying wood , tar , and mystery . 
Bights of buntline and other ropes were dangling from above , only waiting to be swung from . 
A bell was hung just forward of the foremast . 
In half a moment Dick was forward hammering at the bell with a belaying pin he had picked from the deck . 
Mr Button shouted to him to desist the sound of the bell jarred on his nerves . 
It sounded like a summons , and a summons on that deserted craft was quite out of place . 
Who knew what mightn't answer it in the way of the supernatural ? Dick dropped the belaying pin and ran forward . 
He took the disengaged hand , and the three went aft to the door of the deck house . 
The door was open , and they peeped in . 
The place had three windows on the starboard side , and through the windows the sun was shining in a mournful manner . 
There was a table in the middle of the place . 
A seat was pushed away from the table as if someone had risen in a hurry . 
On the table lay the remains of a meal , a teapot , two teacups , two plates . 
On one of the plates rested a fork with a bit of putrifying bacon upon it that some one had evidently been conveying to his mouth when something had happened . 
Near the teapot stood a tin of condensed milk , haggled open . 
Some old salt had just been in the act of putting milk in his tea when the mysterious something had occurred . 
Never did a lot of dead things speak so eloquently as these things spoke . 
One could conjure it all up . 
One thing was evident , that since the abandonment of the brig she had experienced fine weather , else the things would not have been left standing so trimly on the table . 
Mr Button and Dick entered the place to prosecute enquiries , but Emmeline remained at the door . 
The charm of the old brig appealed to her almost as much as to Dick , but she had a feeling about it quite unknown to him . 
A ship where no one was had about it suggestions of other things . 
She was afraid to enter the gloomy deckhouse , and afraid to remain alone outside she compromised matters by sitting down on the deck . 
There was not much to be found in the deck house , but aft of it were two small cabins like rabbit hutches , once inhabited by the skipper and his mate . 
Here there were great findings in the way of rubbish . 
Old clothes , old boots , an old top hat of that extra ordinary pattern you may see in the streets of Pernambuco , immensely tall , and narrowing towards the brim . 
A telescope without a lens , a volume of Hoyt , a nautical almanac , a great bolt of striped flannel shirting , a box of fish hooks . 
And in one corner glorious find ! a coil of what seemed to be ten yards or so of black rope . 
Baccy , begorra ! shouted Pat , seizing upon his treasure . 
You may see coils of it in the tobacconists' windows of seaport towns . 
A pipe full of it would make a hippopotamus vomit , yet old sailors chew it and smoke it and revel in it . 
Em , shouted Dick , as he emerged from the doorway , see what I've got ! He popped the awful looking structure over his head . 
It went right down to his shoulders . 
It smells funny , said Dick , taking it off and applying his nose to the inside of it smells like an old hair brush . 
Here , you try it on . 
Emmeline scrambled away as far as she could , till she reached the starboard bulwarks , where she sat in the scupper , breathless and speechless and wide eyed . 
, and this hat suddenly seen half covering Dick frightened her out of her wits . 
Besides , it was a black thing , and she hated black things black cats , black horses worst of all , black dogs . 
She had once seen a hearse in the streets of Boston , an old time hearse with black plumes , trappings and all complete . 
The sight had nearly given her a fit , though she did not know in the least the meaning of it . 
Meanwhile Mr Button was conveying armful after armful of stuff on deck . 
When the heap was complete , he sat down beside it in the glorious afternoon sunshine , and lit his pipe . 
He had searched neither for food or water as yet content with the treasure God had given him , for the moment the material things of life were forgotten . 
Emmeline , seeing what was in progress , crept up , Dick promising not to put the hat on her , and they all sat round the pile . 
Put them beside you , Dick , and lay hold of this pair of britches by the ends of em' stritch them . 
The trousers were stretched out , examined and approved of , and laid beside the boots . 
Here's a tiliscope wid wan eye shut , said Mr Button , examining the broken telescope and pulling it in and out like a concertina . 
Stick it beside the brogues it may come in handy for somethin' . 
Here's a book tossing the nautical almanac to the boy . 
Tell me what it says . 
Dick examined the pages of figures hopelessly . 
I can't read 'em , said Dick it's numbers . 
Buzz it overboard , said Mr Button . 
Dick did what he was told joyfully , and the proceedings resumed . 
He tried on the tall hat , and the children laughed . 
On her old friend's head the thing ceased to have terror for Emmeline . 
She had two methods of laughing . 
He put the hat on one side , and continued the sorting , searching all the pockets of the clothes and finding nothing . 
When he had arranged what to keep , they flung the rest overboard , and the valuables were conveyed to the captain's cabin , there to remain till wanted . 
Then the idea that food might turn up useful as well as old clothes in their present condition struck the imaginative mind of Mr Button , and he proceeded to search . 
The lazarette was simply a cistern full of sea water what else it might contain , not being a diver , he could not say . 
I n the copper of the caboose lay a great lump of putrifying pork or meat of some sort . 
The harness cask contained nothing except huge crystals of salt . 
All the meat had been taken away . 
Mr Button leaned over the side . 
The dinghy was nestling beside the brig like a duckling beside a duck the broad channel might have been likened to the duck's wing half extended . 
He got on the channel to see if the painter was safely attached . 
Having made all secure , he climbed slowly up to the main yard arm , and looked round upon the sea . 
CHAPTER IX SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT Daddy's a long time coming , said Dick all of a sudden . 
They were seated on the baulks of timber that cumbered the deck of the brig on either side of the caboose . 
The sun was setting over Australia way , in a sea that seemed like a sea of boiling gold . 
Some mystery of mirage caused the water to heave and tremble as if troubled by fervent heat . 
Ay , is he , said Mr Button but it's better late than never . 
Now don't be thinkin' of him , for that won't bring him . 
Look at the sun goin' into the wather , and don't be spakin' a word , now , but listen and you'll hear it hiss . 
The children gazed and listened , Paddy also . 
All three were mute as the great blazing shield touched the water that leapt to meet it . 
You COULD hear the water hiss if you had imagination enough . 
Once having touched the water , the sun went down behind it , as swiftly as a man in a hurry going down a ladder . 
As he vanished a ghostly and golden twilight spread over the sea , a light exquisite but immensely forlorn . 
Then the sea became a violet shadow , the west darkened as if to a closing door , and the stars rushed over the sky . 
Mr Button , said Emmeline , nodding towards the sun as he vanished , where's over there ? The west , replied he , staring at the sunset . 
Chainy and Injee and all away beyant . 
Where's the sun gone to now , Paddy ? asked Dick . 
He's gone chasin' the moon , an' she's skedadlin' wid her dress brailed up for all she's worth she'll be along up in a minit . 
He's always afther her , but he's never caught her yet . 
What would he do to her if he caught her ? asked Emmeline . 
Faith , an' maybe he'd fetch her a skelp an' well she'd desarve it . 
Why'd she deserve it ? asked Dick , who was in one of his questioning moods . 
Because she's always delutherin' people an' leadin' thim asthray . 
Girls or men , she moidhers thim all once she gets the comeither on them same as she did Buck M'Cann . 
Who's he ? Buck M'Cann ? Faith , he was the village ijit where I used to live in the ould days . 
What's that' Hould your whisht , an' don't be axin' questions . 
He was always wantin' the moon , though he was twinty an' six feet four . 
Mr Button gazed at the reflection of the sunset on the water for a moment as if recalling some form from the past , and then proceeded . 
I've seen a donkey hobbled , cried Dick . 
Thin you've seen the twin brother of Buck M'Cann . 
Well , one night me elder brother Tim was sittin' over the fire , smokin' his dudeen an' thinkin' of his sins , when in comes Buck with the hobbles on him . 
Tim , says he , I've got her at last ! Got who ? says Tim . 
The moon , says he . 
Got her where ? says Tim . 
In a bucket down by the pond , says t'other , safe an' sound an' not a scratch on her you come and look , says he . 
I dridged her out of the pond , whispers Buck . 
Aisy now , says he , an' I'll dribble the water out gently , says he , an' we'll catch her alive at the bottom of it like a trout . 
She's gone , bad 'cess to her ! says he . 
Try again , says me brother , and Buck fills the bucket again , and there was the moon sure enough when the water came to stand still . 
Go on , says me brother . 
Drain out the wather , but go gentle , or she'll give yiz the slip again . 
Wan minit , says Buck , I've got an idea , says he she won't give me the slip this time , says he . 
You wait for me , says he and off he hobbles to his old mother's cabin a stone's throw away , and back he comes with a sieve . 
You hold the sieve , says Buck , and I'll drain the water into it if she'scapes from the bucket we'll have her in the sieve . 
And he pours the wather out of the bucket as gentle as if it was crame out of a jug . 
When all the wather was out he turns the bucket bottom up , and shook it . 
Where's me bucket ? says she . 
In the pond , say Buck . 
And me sieve ? says she . 
There she comes ! The moon , argent and splendid , was breaking from the water . 
She was full , and her light was powerful almost as the light of day . 
The shadows of the children and the queer shadow of Mr Button were cast on the wall of the caboose hard and black as silhouettes . 
Look at our shadows ! cried Dick , taking off his broad brimmed straw hat and waving it . 
Emmeline held up her doll to see ITS shadow , and Mr Button held up his pipe . 
I don't want to go to bed I aint tired , Paddy les's stay a little longer . 
Not a minit , said the other , with all the decision of a nurse not a minit afther me pipe's out ! Fill it again , said Dick . 
Mr Button made no reply . 
The pipe gurgled as he puffed at it a kind of death rattle speaking of almost immediate extinction . 
Mr Button ! said Emmeline . 
What is it , acushla ? I smell something . 
What d'ye say you smell ? Something nice . 
What's it like ? asked Dick , sniffing hard . 
Emmeline sniffed again to make sure . 
Flowers ! said the old sailor , tapping the ashes cut of his pipe against the heel of his boot . 
And where'd you get flowers in middle of the say ? It's dhramin' you are . 
Come now to bed wid yiz ! Fill it again , wailed Dick , referring to the pipe . 
It's a spankin' I'll give you , replied his guardian , lifting him down from the timber baulks , and then assisting Emmeline , in two ticks if you don't behave . 
He started aft , a small hand in each of his , Dick bellowing . 
As they passed the ship's bell , Dick stretched towards the belaying pin that was still lying on the deck , seized it , and hit the bell a mighty bang . 
It was the last pleasure to be snatched before sleep , and he snatched it . 
When the children were in bed and asleep , he went to the starboard rail , and , leaning on it , looked over the moonlit sea . 
He was thinking of ships as his wandering eye roved over the sea spaces , little dreaming of the message that the perfumed breeze was bearing him . 
The message that had been received and dimly understood by E mmeline . 
Then he leaned with his back to the rail and his hands in his pockets . 
He was not thinking now , he was ruminating . 
The basis of the Irish character as exemplified by Paddy Button is a profound laziness mixed with a profound melancholy . 
Yet there they were , the laziness and the melancholy , only waiting to be tapped . 
Suddenly Mr Button came back from the mountains of Connemara to find himself on the deck of the Shenandoah and he instantly became possessed by fears . 
Beyond the white deserted deck , barred by the shadows of the standing rigging , he could see the door of the caboose . 
CHAPTER X THE TRAGEDY OF THE BOATS When the fog lifted after midnight the people in the long boat saw the quarter boat half a mile to starboard of them . 
Can you see the dinghy ? asked Lestrange of the captain , who was standing up searching the horizon . 
Not a speck , answered Le Farge . 
DAMN that Irishman ! but for him I'd have got the boats away properly victualled and all as it is I don't know what we've got aboard . 
You , Jenkins , what have you got forward there ? Two bags of bread and a breaker of water , answered the steward . 
A breaker of water be sugared ! came another voice a breaker half full , you mean . 
Then the steward's voice So it is there's not more than a couple of gallons in her . 
My God ! said Le Farge . 
DAMN that Irishman ! There's not more than'll give us two half pannikins apiece all round , said the steward . 
Maybe , said Le Farge , the quarter boat's better stocked pull for her . 
She's pulling for us , said the stroke oar . 
Captain , asked Lestrange , are you sure there's no sight of the dinghy ? None , replied Le Farge . 
The unfortunate man's head sank on his breast . 
When the boats were within hailing distance , a man in the bow of the long boat rose up . 
Quarter boat ahoy ! Ahoy ! How much water have you ? None ! The word came floating over the placid moonlit water . 
At it the fellows in the long boat ceased rowing , and you could see the water drops dripping off their oars like diamonds in the moonlight . 
Quarter boat , ahoy ! shouted the fellow in the bow . 
Here , you scowbanker ! cried Le Farge , who are you to be giving directions Scowbanker yourself ! replied the fellow . 
Bullies , put her about ! The starboard oars backed water , and the boat came round . 
Le Farge had no more command over this lot than you have who are reading this book . 
Heave to ! came from the quarter boat , as she laboured behind . 
Lay on your oars , bullies ! cried the ruffian at the bow , who was still standing up like an evil genius who had taken momentary command over events . 
Lay on your oars , bullies they'd better have it now . 
The quarter boat in her turn ceased rowing , and lay a cable's length away . 
How much water have you ? came the mate's voice . 
Not enough to go round . 
Le Farge made to rise , and the stroke oar struck at him , catching him in the wind and doubling him up in the bottom of the boat . 
The conflict was brief the quarter boat was too crowded for fighting . 
The starboard men in the long boat fought with their oars , whilst the fellows to port steadied the boat . 
The fight did not last long , and presently the quarter boat sheered off , half of the men in her cut about the head and bleeding two of them senseless . 
It was sundown on the following day . 
The long boat lay adrift . 
The last drop of water had been served out eight hours before . 
The quarter boat , like a horrible phantom , had been haunting and pursuing her all day , begging for water when there was none . 
It was like the prayers one might expect to hear in hell . 
Now and then , suddenly , and as if moved by a common impulse , they would all shout out together We have none . 
But the quarter boat would not believe . 
Just as the sun touched the sea , Lestrange , rousing himself from a torpor into which he had sunk , raised himself and looked over the gunwale . 
Of the night that followed it is almost impossible to speak . 
Thirst was nothing to what the scowbankers suffered from the torture of the whimpering appeal for water that came to them at intervals during the night . 
When at last the Arago , a French whale ship , sighted them , the crew of the long boat were still alive , but three of them were raving madmen . 
Of the crew of the quarter boat was saved not one . 
PART II CHAPTER XI THE ISLAND Childer ! shouted Paddy . 
He was at the cross trees in the full dawn , whilst the children standing beneath on deck were craning their faces up to him . 
There's an island forenint us . 
He was not quite sure what an island might be like in the concrete , but it was something fresh , and Paddy's voice was jubilant . 
Land ho ! it is , said he , coming down to the deck . 
Come for'ard to the bows , and I'll show it you . 
It was not directly ahead , but on the starboard bow or , as she would have expressed it , to the right . 
When Dick had looked and expressed his disappointment at there being so little to see , Paddy began to make preparations for leaving the ship . 
It was only just now , with land in sight , that he recognised in some fashion the horror of the position from which they were about to escape . 
Also , of course , he took the breaker of water , and the remains of the biscuit and tinned stuff they had brought on board . 
These being stowed , and the dinghy ready , he went forward with the children to the bow , to see how the island was bearing . 
It was well they had command of the dinghy . 
Are we going there , Paddy ? asked Dick , holding on to a stay , and straining his eyes towards the land . 
Ay , are we , said Mr Button . 
Hot foot five knots , if we're makin' wan and it's ashore we'll be by noon , and maybe sooner . 
The breeze had freshened up , and was blowing dead from the island , as though the island were making a weak attempt to blow them away from it . 
Oh , what a fresh and perfumed breeze it was ! All sorts of tropical growing things had joined their scent in one bouquet . 
Smell it , said Emmeline , expanding her small nostrils . 
That's what I smelt last night , only it's stronger now . 
Islands the most lonely and beautiful in the world . 
As they gazed it grew before them , and shifted still more to the right . 
It was hilly and green now , though the trees could not be clearly made out here , the green was lighter in colour , and there , darker . 
A rim of pure white marble seemed to surround its base . 
It was foam breaking on the barrier reef . 
In another hour the feathery foliage of the cocoanut palms could be made out , and the old sailor judged it time to take to the boat . 
He lifted Emmeline , who was clasping her luggage , over the rail on to the channel , and deposited her in the sternsheets then Dick . 
In a moment the boat was adrift , the mast steeped , and the Shenandoah left to pursue her mysterious voyage at the will of the currents of the sea . 
You're not going to the island , Paddy , cried Dick , as the old man put the boat on the port tack . 
You be aisy , replied the other , and don't be larnin' your gran'mother . 
How the divil d'ye think I'd fetch the land sailin' dead in the wind's eye ? Has the wind eyes ? Mr Button did not answer the question . 
He was troubled in his mind . 
What if the island were inhabited ? He had spent several years in the South Seas . 
He knew the people of the Marquesas and Samoa , and liked them . 
But here he was out of his bearings . 
However , all the troubling in the world was of no use . 
Now , as they drew nearer , a sound came on the breeze sound faint and sonorous and dreamy . 
It was the sound of the breakers on the reef . 
The sea just here was heaving to a deeper swell , as if vexed in its sleep at the resistance to it of the land . 
Emmeline , sitting with her bundle in her lap , stared without speaking at the sight before her . 
Even in the bright , glorious sunshine , and despite the greenery that showed beyond , it was a desolate sight seen from her place in the dinghy . 
A white , forlorn beach , over which the breakers raced and tumbled , seagulls wheeling and screaming , and over all the thunder of the surf . 
Suddenly the break became visible , and a glimpse of smooth , blue water beyond . 
Button unshipped the tiller , unstepped the mast , and took to the sculls . 
As they drew nearer , the sea became more active , savage , and alive the thunder of the surf became louder , the breakers more fierce and threatening , the opening broader . 
Sea gulls screamed around them , the boat rocked and swayed . 
Dick shouted with excitement , and Emmeline shut her eyes TIGHT . 
Then , as though a door had been swiftly and silently closed , the sound of the surf became suddenly less . 
The boat floated on an even keel she opened her eyes and found herself in Wonderland . 
CHAPTER XII THE LAKE OF AZURE On either side lay a great sweep of waving blue water . 
Calm , almost as a lake , sapphire here , and here with the tints of the aquamarine . 
Water so clear that fathoms away below you could see the branching coral , the schools of passing fish , and the shadows of the fish upon the spaces of sand . 
Look ! shouted Dick , who had his nose over the of the boat . 
On either side of the broad beach before them the cocoa nut trees came down like two regiments , and bending gazed at their own reflections in the lagoon . 
Beyond lay waving chapparel , where cocoa palms and breadfruit trees intermixed with the mammee apple and the tendrils of the wild vine . 
But the soul of it all , the indescribable thing about this picture of mirrored palm trees , blue lagoon , coral reef and sky , was the light . 
Away at sea the light was blinding , dazzling , cruel . 
Away at sea it had nothing to focus itself upon , nothing to exhibit but infinite spaces of blue water and desolation . 
Something like a small triangle of dark canvas , that rippled through the water and sank from sight something that appeared and vanished like an evil thought . 
It did not take long to beach the boat . 
Mr Button tumbled over the side up to his knees in water , whilst Dick crawled over the bow . 
Catch hould of her the same as I do , cried Paddy , laying hold of the starboard gunwale whilst Dick , imitative as a monkey , seized the gunwale to port . 
Now then Yeo ho , Chilliman , Up wid her , up wid her , Heave , Chilliman . 
Lave her be now she's high enough . 
He took Emmeline in his arms and carried her up on the sand . 
It was from just here on the sand that you could see the true beauty of the lagoon . 
That lake of sea water forever protected from storm and trouble by the barrier reef of coral . 
The lagoon , just here , was perhaps more than a third of a mile broad . 
The distant signal and the distant call were almost coincident , yet not quite . 
Dick , mad with delight at the place in which he found himself , was running about like a dog just out of the water . 
Mr Button was discharging the cargo of the dinghy on the dry , white sand . 
Emmeline seated herself with her precious bundle on the sand , and was watching the operations of her friend , looking at the things around her and feeling very strange . 
For all she knew all this was the ordinary accompaniment of a sea voyage . 
Paddy's manner throughout had been set to the one idea , not to frighten the childer the weather had backed him up . 
But down in the heart of her lay the knowledge that all was not as it should be . 
The hurried departure from the ship , the fog in which her uncle had vanished , those things , and others as well , she felt instinctively were not right . 
Take it away ! cried Emmeline , holding both hands with fingers widespread in front of her face . 
Mr Button ! Mr Button ! Mr Button ! Lave her be , you little divil ! roared Pat , who was depositing the last of the cargo on the sand . 
Lave her be , or it's a cow hidin' I'll be givin' you ! What's a divil , Paddy ? asked Dick , panting from his exertions . 
Paddy , what's a divil' ? You're wan . 
Ax no questions now , for it's tired I am , an' I want to rest me bones . 
He flung himself under the shade of a palm tree , took out his tinder box , tobacco and pipe , cut some tobacco up , filled his pipe and lit it . 
Emmeline crawled up , and sat near him , and Dick flung himself down on the sand near Emmeline . 
Mr Button took off his coat and made a pillow of it against a cocoa nut tree stem . 
He had found the El Dorado of the weary . 
With his knowledge of the South Seas a glance at the vegetation to be seen told him that food for a regiment might be had for the taking water , too . 
Right down the middle of the strand was a depression which in the rainy season would be the bed of a rushing rivulet . 
There was enough in the breaker for a week , and green cucanuts were to be had for the climbing . 
Emmeline contemplated Paddy for a while as he smoked and rested his bones , then a great thought occurred to her . 
She took the little shawl from around the parcel she was holding and exposed the mysterious box . 
Oh , begorra , the box ! said Paddy , leaning on his elbow interestedly I might a' known you wouldn't a' forgot it . 
Mrs James , said Emmeline , made me promise not to open it till I got on shore , for the things in it might get lost . 
Well , you're ashore now , said Dick open it . 
I'm going to , said Emmeline . 
She carefully undid the string , refusing the assistance of Paddy's knife . 
Then the brown paper came off , disclosing a common cardboard box . 
She raised the lid half an inch , peeped in , and shut it again . 
OPEN it ! cried Dick , mad with curiosity . 
What's in it , honey ? asked the old sailor , who was as interested as Dick . 
Sure , it's a tay set ! said Paddy , in an interested voice . 
Glory be to God ! will you look at the little plates wid the flowers on thim ? Heugh ! said Dick in disgust I thought it might a' been soldiers . 
I don't want soldiers , replied Emmeline , in a voice of perfect contentment . 
She unfolded a piece of tissue paper , and took from it a sugar tongs and six spoons . 
Then she arrayed the whole lot on the sand . 
Well , if that don't beat all ! said Paddy . 
And whin are you goin' to ax me to tay with you ? Some time , replied Emmeline , collecting the things , and carefully repacking them . 
Mr Button finished his pipe , tapped the ashes out , and placed it in his pocket . 
Lave your box with the other things , Emmeline there's no one here to take it . 
It was like entering a pine forest the tall symmetrical stems of the trees seemed set by mathematical law , each at a given distance from the other . 
Whichever way you entered a twilight alley set with tree boles lay before you . 
, and we'll have it for tay . 
That's not a cocoa nut , said Dick coco anuts are brown . 
I had five cents once an' I bought one , and scraped it out and y'et it . 
Sims made Dicky sick , said Emmeline , he said the wonder t'im was how Dicky held it all . 
Come on , said Mr Button , an' don't be talkin' , or it's the Cluricaunes will be after us . 
What's cluricaunes ? demanded Dick . 
Little men no bigger than your thumb that make the brogues for the Good People . 
Who's they ? Whisht , and don't be talkin' . 
Mind your head , Em'leen , or the branches'll be hittin' you in the face . 
They had left the cocoa nut grove , and entered the chapparel . 
Here was a deeper twilight , and all sorts of trees lent their foliage to make the shade . 
Through the silence a silence filled with the hum and the murmur of wood insects and the faint , far song of the reef came a tinkling , rippling sound it was water . 
He listened to make sure of the bearing of the sound , then he made for it . 
Next moment they found themselves in a little grass grown glade . 
The children cried out at the prettiness of it , and Emmeline ran and dabbled her hands in the water . 
Just above the little water fall sprang a banana tree laden with fruit it had immense leaves six feet long and more , and broad as a dinner table . 
One could see the golden glint of the ripe fruit through the foliage . 
In a moment Mr Button had kicked off his shoes and was going up the rock like a cat , absolutely , for it seemed to give him nothing to climb by . 
Hurroo ! cried Dick in admiration . 
Look at Paddy ! Emmeline looked , and saw nothing but swaying leaves . 
Stand from under ! he shouted , and next moment down came a huge bunch of yellow jacketed bananas . 
Dick shouted with delight , but Emmeline showed no excitement she had discovered something . 
Sure , an' faith it's an' ould empty bar'l , said Button , wiping the sweat from his brow and staring at the thing . 
Some ship must have been wathering here an' forgot it . 
It'll do for a sate whilst we have dinner . 
He sat down upon it and distributed the bananas to the children , who sat down on the grass . 
The barrel looked such a deserted and neglected thing that his imagination assumed it to be empty . 
Empty or full , however , it made an excellent seat , for it was quarter sunk in the green soft earth , and immovable . 
If ships has been here , ships will come again , said he , as he munched his bananas . 
Will daddy's ship come here ? asked Dick . 
Ay , to be sure it will , replied the other , taking out his pipe . 
When he had finished his pipe he hallooed , and small voices answered him from the wood . 
Look at what a funny thing I've found ! he cried it's got holes in it . 
Dhrap it ! shouted Mr Button , springing from the barrel as if someone had stuck an awl into him . 
Where'd you find it ? What d'you mane by touchin' it ? Give it here . 
He hove it as far as he could away amidst the trees . 
What is it , Paddy ? asked Dick , half astonished , half frightened at the old man's manner . 
It's nothin' good , replied Mr Button . 
There were two others , and I wanted to fetch them , grumbled Dick . 
Musha ! musha ! but there's been black doin's here in days gone by . 
What is it , Emmeline ? Emmeline was holding out her bunch of flowers for admiration . 
He took a great gaudy blossom if flowers can ever be called gaudy and stuck its stalk in the pocket of his coat . 
Then he led the way uphill , muttering as he went . 
The higher they got , the less dense became the trees and the fewer the cocoa nut palms . 
The cocoa nut palm loves the sea , and the few they had here all had their heads bent in the direction of the lagoon , as if yearning after it . 
They passed a cane brake where canes twenty feet high whispered together like bulrushes . 
The rock was about twenty feet high , and easy to climb . 
Its top was almost flat , and as spacious as an ordinary dinner table . 
From it one could obtain a complete view of the island and the sea . 
You have seen a field of green barley ruffled over by the wind , just so from the hill top you could see the wind in its passage over the sunlit foliage beneath . 
It was breezing up from the south west , and banyan and cocoa palm , artu and breadfruit tree , swayed and rocked in the merry wind . 
As if to strengthen the idea , now and then above the trees would burst what seemed a rocket of coloured stars . 
The stars would drift away in a flock on the wind and be lost . 
They were flights of birds . 
All coloured birds peopled the trees below blue , scarlet , dove coloured , bright of eye , but voiceless . 
From the reef you could see occasionally the seagulls rising here and there in clouds like small puffs of smoke . 
The lagoon , here deep , here shallow , presented , according to its depth or shallowness , the colours of ultra marine or sky . 
The broadest parts were the palest , because the most shallow and here and there , in the shallows , you might see a faint tracery of coral ribs almost reaching the surface . 
The island at its broadest might have been three miles across . 
There was not a sign of house or habitation to be seen , and not a sail on the whole of the wide Pacific . 
It was a strange place to be , up here . 
A place to which no messages were ever carried except by the wind or the sea gulls . 
In this solitude the beetle was as carefully painted and the flower as carefully tended as though all the peoples of the civilised world were standing by to criticise or approve . 
Nowhere in the world , perhaps , so well as here , could you appreciate Nature's splendid indifference to the great affairs of Man . 
The old sailor was thinking nothing of this sort . 
His eyes were fixed on a small and almost imperceptible stain on the horizon to the sou' sou' west . 
It was no doubt another island almost hull down on the horizon . 
Save for this blemish the whole wheel of the sea was empty and serene . 
Emmeline had not followed them up to the rock . 
She had gone botanising where some bushes displayed great bunches of the crimson arita berries as if to show to the sun what Earth could do in the way of manufacturing poison . 
She plucked two great bunches of them , and with this treasure came to the base of the rock . 
Lave thim berries down ! cried Mr Button , when she had attracted his attention . 
Don't put thim in your mouth thim's the never wake up berries . 
He came down off the rock , hand over fist , flung the poisonous things away , and looked into Emmeline's small mouth , which at his command she opened wide . 
There was only a little pink tongue in it , however , curled up like a rose leaf no sign of berries or poison . 
CHAPTER XIV ECHOES OF FAIRY LAND Mr Buttons , said Emmeline that night , as they sat on the sand near the tent he had improvised , Mr Button cats go to sleep . 
They had been questioning him about the never wake up berries . 
Who said they didn't ? asked Mr Button . 
I mean , said Emmeline , they go to sleep and never wake up again . 
It had stripes on it , and a white chest , and rings all down its tail . 
It went asleep in the garden , all stretched out , and showing its teeth an' I told Jane , and Dicky ran in an' told uncle . 
I remember , said Dick . 
It was the day I went to the circus , and you told me not to tell daddy the cat was deadn' berried . 
Then he told me not to tell anyone he'd said that , for it was a swear word , and he oughtn't to have said it . 
I asked him what he'd give me if I didn't tell , an' he gave me five cents . 
That was the day I bought the cocoa nut . 
The sun had set , but the moon had not yet risen as they sat in the starlight on the sand near the temporary abode . 
What's the things you said made the boots for the people , Paddy ? asked Dick , after a pause . 
Which things ? You said in the wood I wasn't to talk , else Oh , the Cluricaunes the little men that cobbles the Good People's brogues . 
Mrs Sims said there weren't . 
Mrs James , put in Emmeline , said there were . 
She said she liked to see children b'lieve in fairies . 
She was talking to another lady , who'd got a red feather in her bonnet , and a fur muff . 
They were having tea , and I was sitting on the hearthrug . 
They didn't say anything more about fairies , but Mrs James Whether you b'lave in them or not , said Paddy , there they are . 
An' what in the name of the saints is the mather wid yiz ? says me mother . 
I've sane the Good People , says he , up on the field beyant , says he and they've got the goose , says he , but , begorra , I've saved . 
the bottle , he says . 
Dhraw the cork and give me a taste of it , for me heart's in me throat , and me tongue's like a brick kil . 
An' whin we come to prize the cork out of the bottle , there was nothin' in it an' whin we went next marnin' to look for the goose , it was gone . 
Dick interposed with a question as to the process , aim , and object of japanning , but Mr Button passed the question by . 
He'd been bad enough for seein' fairies before they japanned him , but afther it , begorra , he was twiced as bad . 
I was a slip of a lad at the time , but me hair near turned grey wid the tales he'd tell of the Good People and their doin's . 
Another night it's a dunkey he'd be , harnessed to a little cart , an' bein' kicked in the belly and made to draw stones . 
Mr Button paused to relight his pipe , which had gone out , and there was silence for a moment . 
The moon had risen , and the song of the surf on the reef filled the whole night with its lullaby . 
The broad lagoon lay waving and rippling in the moonlight to the incoming tide . 
Twice as broad it always looked seen by moonlight or starlight than when seen by day . 
Occasionally the splash of a great fish would cross the silence , and the ripple of it wouId pass a moment later across the placid water . 
Big things happened in the lagoon at night , unseen by eyes from the shore . 
You would have found the wood behind them , had you walked through it , full of light . 
A tropic forest under a tropic moon is green as a sea cave . 
You can see the vine tendrils and the flowers , the orchids and tree boles all lit as by the light of an emerald tinted day . 
Mr Button took a long piece of string from his pocket . 
It's bedtime , said he and I'm going to tether Em'leen , for fear she'd be walkin' in her slape , and wandherin' away an' bein' lost in the woods . 
I don't want to be tethered , said E mmeIine . 
It's for your own good I'm doin' it , replied Mr Button , fixing the string round her waist . 
He led her like a dog in a leash to the tent , and tied the other end of the string to the scull , which was the tent's main prop and support . 
Now , said he , if you be gettin' up and walkin' about in the night , it's down the tint will be on top of us all . 
And , sure enough , in the small hours of the morning , it was . 
A crab might just as well have attempted to chase an antelope . 
They had been on the island a fortnight , and Dick had discovered the keenest joy in life to be naked . 
To be naked and wallow in the shallows of the lagoon , to be naked and sit drying in the sun . 
The very first command Mr Button had given on the second morning of their arrival was , Strip and into the water wid you . 
had stood weeping in her little chemise . 
But Mr Button was obdurate . 
The difficulty at first was to get them in the difficulty now was to keep them out . 
Emmeline was sitting as nude as the day star , drying in the morning sun after her dip , and watching Dick's evolutions on the sand . 
The lagoon had for the children far more attraction than the land . 
Deep down where the coral branches were you might watch , whilst Paddy fished , all sorts of things disporting on the sand patches and between the coral tufts . 
Hermit crabs that had evicted whelks , wearing the evicted ones' shells an obvious misfit sea anemones as big as roses . 
There was a lot of human nature lurking in the depths of the lagoon , comedy and tragedy . 
An English rock pool has its marvels . 
It suited the lazy humour of Mr Button that he never pursued the lagoon more than half a mile or so on either side of the beach . 
They fixed the tent amidst the trees at the edge of the chapparel , and made it larger and more abiding with the aid of the dinghy's sail . 
Amidst these occupations , wonders , and pleasures , the children lost all count of the flight of time . 
They rarely asked about Mr Lestrange after a while they did'nt ask about him at all . 
You must collect and cook your own food . 
Then , after a while , if you have no special ties to bind you to civilisation , Nature will begin to do for you what she does for the savage . 
You will recognise that it is possible to be happy without books or newspapers , letters or bills . 
You will recognise the part sleep plays in Nature . 
Profound and prolonged lapses into sleep sudden awakenings into a world of pure air and dazzling light , the gaiety of colour all round . 
Nature had indeed opened her doors to these children . 
Just as Emmeline had brought away her treasured box from the Northumberland , Dick had conveyed with him a small linen bag that chinked when shaken . 
Of course one cannot play at marbles on board ship , but one can play WITH them . 
They had been a great comfort to Dick on the voyage . 
He knew them each personally , and he would roll them out on the mattress of his bunk and review them nearly every day , whilst Emmeline looked on . 
He stood with his hands in his pockets and his pipe in his mouth watching and criticising the game , pleased that the childer were amused . 
On high and rare occasions Emmeline would open her precious box , spread its contents and give a tea party , Mr Button acting as guest or president as the case might be . 
Then Emmeline would wash the things in imaginary water , replace them in the box , and every one would lose their company manners and become quite natural again . 
Have you ever seen your name , Paddy ? asked Dick one morning . 
Seen me which ? Your name ? Arrah , don't be axin' me questions , replied the other . 
How the divil could I see me name Wait and I'll show you , replied Dick . 
And that's me name , is it ? What's the letters in it ? Dick enumerated them . 
I'll teach you to do it , too , he said . 
But Dick , with the terrible gadfly tirelessness of childhood , was not to be put off , and the unfortunate Mr Button had to go to school despite himself . 
Which next ? would ask the sweating scribe , the perspiration pouring from his forehead which next ? An' be quick , for it's moithered I am . 
The appetite comes with teaching . 
The pleasantest mental exercise of childhood is the instruction of one's elders . 
She took the geography class one day in a timid manner , putting her little hand first in the great horny fist of her friend . 
Mr Button ! Well , honey ? I know g'ography . 
And what's that ? asked Mr Button . 
This stumped Emmeline for a moment . 
It's where places are , she said at last . 
Which places ? enquired he . 
All sorts of places , replied Emmeline . 
Mr Button ! What is it , darlin' ? Would you like to learn g'ography ? I'm not wishful for larnin' , said the other hurriedly . 
It makes me head buzz to hear them things they rade out of books . 
Paddy , said Dick , who was strong on drawing that afternoon , look here . 
He drew the following on the sand a bad drawing of an elephant That's an elephant , he said in a dubious voice . 
Mr Button grunted , and the sound was by no means filled with enthusiastic assent . 
A chill fell on the proceedings . 
Dick wiped the elephant slowly and regretfully out , whilst Emmeline felt disheartened . 
Then her face suddenly cleared the seraphic smile came into it for a moment a bright idea had struck her . 
Dicky , she said , draw Henry the Eight . 
He cleared the sand and drew the following figure l l THAT'S not Henry the Eight , he explained , but he will be in a minute . 
Daddy showed me how to draw him he's nothing till he gets his hat on . 
Then Dick with a single stroke of the cane put Henry's hat on . 
, yet Mr Button remained unmoved . 
I did it for Mrs Sims , said Dick regretfully , and she said it was the image of him . 
Maybe the hat's not big enough , said Emmeline , turning her head from side to side as she gazed at the picture . 
It looked right , but she felt there must be something wrong , as Mr Button did not applaud . 
the lagoon edge , leaving Henry and his hat a figure on the sand to be obliterated by the wind . 
After a while , as time went on , Mr Button took to his lessons as a matter of course , the small inventions of the children assisting their utterly untrustworthy knowledge . 
Knowledge , perhaps , as useful as any other there amidst the lovely poetry of the palm trees and the sky . 
The rainy season came on them with a rush , and at the words rainy season do not conjure up in your mind the vision of a rainy day in Manchester . 
The rainy season here was quite a lively time . 
Torrential showers followed by bursts of sunshine , rainbows , and rain dogs in the sky , and the delicious perfume of all manner of growing things on the earth . 
After the rains the old sailor said he'd be after making a house of bamboos before the next rains came on them but , maybe , before that they'd be off the island . 
But he had reckoned without Dick . 
The boy had not the least wish to live in a house , but he had a keen desire to see one built , and help to build one . 
The ingenuity which is part of the multiform basis of the American nature was aroused . 
How're you going to keep them from slipping , if you tie them together like that ? he asked , when Paddy had more fully explained his method . 
Which from slippin' ? The canes one from the other ? After you've fixed thim , one cross t'other , you drive a nail through the cross piece and a rope over all . 
Have you any nails , Paddy ? No , said Mr Button , I haven't . 
Then how're you goin' to build the house ? Ax me no questions now I want to smoke me pipe . 
But he had raised a devil difficult to lay . 
Till Mr Button , in despair , like a beaver , began to build . 
There was great cane cutting in the canebrake above , and , when sufficient had been procured , Mr Button struck work for three days . 
He would have struck altogether , but he had found a taskmaster . 
It was in vain that he tried to stave him off with stories about fairies and Cluricaunes . 
Dick wanted to build a house . 
He said he had no nails . 
Dick countered by showing how the canes could be held together by notching them . 
And , faith , but it's a cliver boy you are , said the weary one admiringly , when the other had explained his method . 
Then come along , Paddy , and stick 'em up . 
But Dick pointed out that the brown cloth which Nature has wrapped round the cocoa palm stalks would do instead of rope if cut in strips . 
Then the badgered one gave in . 
They laboured for a fortnight at the thing , and at the end of that time had produced a rough sort of wigwam on the borders of the chapparel . 
Out on the reef , to which they often rowed in the dinghy , when the tide was low , deep pools would be left , and in the pools fish . 
Paddy said if they had a spear they might be able to spear some of these fish , as he had seen the natives do away beyant in Tahiti . 
Dick enquired as to the nature of a spear , and next day produced a ten foot cane sharpened at the end after the fashion of a quill pen . 
Sure , what's the use of that ? said Mr Button . 
You might job it into a fish , but he'd be aff it in two ticks it's the barb that holds them . 
Next day the indefatigable one produced the cane amended he had whittled it down about three feet from the end and on one side , and carved a fairly efficient barb . 
It was good enough , at all events , to spear a groper with , that evening , in the sunset lit pools of the reef at low tide . 
There aren't any potatoes here , said Dick one day , after the second rains . 
We've et 'em all months ago , replied Paddy . 
How do potatoes grow ? enquired Dick . 
It's like a famiIy of childer some's big and some's little . 
Why didn't we do that ? asked Dick . 
Do what ? asked Mr Button . 
Plant some of the potatoes . 
And where'd we have found the spade to plant them with ? I guess we could have fixed up a spade , replied the boy . 
I made a spade at home , out of a piece of old board once daddy helped . 
Emmeline was sitting nearby , stringing together some gorgeous blossoms on a tendril of liana . 
Months of sun and ozone had made a considerable difference in the child . 
She was as brown as a gipsy and freckled , not very much taller , but twice as plump . 
Her eyes had lost considerably that look as though she were contemplating futurity and immensity not as abstractions , but as concrete images , and she had lost the habit of sleep walking . 
There is no narcotic to excel fresh air . 
Months of semi savagery had made also a good deal of difference in Dick's appearance . 
He was two inches taller than on the day they landed . 
Freckled and tanned , he had the appearance of a boy of twelve . 
He was the promise of a fine man . 
He was not a good looking child , but he was healthy looking , with a jolly laugh , and a daring , almost impudent expression of face . 
The question of the children's clothes was beginning to vex the mind of the old sailor . 
The climate was a suit of clothes in itself . 
One was much happier with almost nothing on . 
Of course there were changes of temperature , but they were slight . 
Eternal summer , broken by torrential rains , and occasionally a storm , that was the climate of the island still , the childer couldn't go about with nothing on . 
He took some of the striped flannel and made Emmeline a kilt . 
Turn to the lift a bit more , he'd say , aisy does it . 
Stidy so musha ! musha ! where's thim scissors ? Dick , be holdin' the end of this bit of string till I get the stitches in behint . 
Does that hang comfortable ? well , an' you're the trouble an' all . 
How's THAT ? That's aisier , is it ? Lift your fut till I see if it comes to your knees . 
Now off with it , and lave me alone till I stitch the tags to it . 
He had been on the hill top . 
Bluff bowed and squab , the figure of an old Dutch woman , and telling of her trade a league off . 
It was just after the rains , the sky was not yet quite clear of clouds you could see showers away at sea , and the sea was green and foam capped . 
There was the trying out gear there were the boats , the crow's nest , and all complete , and labelling her a whaler . 
He had been there before , and he knew . 
He would have destroyed the house , if he could , but he hadn't time . 
Then he rowed the dinghy a hundred yards down the lagoon to the left , and moored her under the shade of an aoa , whose branches grew right over the water . 
Then he came back through the cocoa nut grove on foot , and peered through the trees over the lagoon to see what was to be seen . 
The wind was blowing dead on for the opening in the reef , and the old whaleman came along breasting the swell with her bluff bows , and entered the lagoon . 
There was no leadsman in her chains . 
She just came in as if she knew all the soundings by heart as probably she did for these whalemen know every hole and corner in the Pacific . 
Then Mr Button , without waiting to see the boats lowered , made back to his charges , and the three camped in the woods that night . 
The old sailor cursed her and her crew , for the incident had brought a new exercise into his lazy life . 
Every day now at noon he had to climb the hill , on the look out for whalemen . 
Whalemen haunted his dreams , though I doubt if he would willingly have gone on board even a Royal Mail steamer . 
He was quite happy where he was . 
After long years of the fo'cs'le the island was a change indeed . 
He had tobacco enough to last him for an indefinite time , the children for companions , and food at his elbow . 
He would have been entirely happy if the island had only been supplied by Nature with a public house . 
The spirit of hilarity and good fellowship , however , who suddenly discovered this error on the part of Nature , rectified it , as will be presently seen . 
The most disastrous result of the whaleman's visit was not the destruction of the house , but the disappearance of Emmeline's box . 
Hunt high or hunt low , it could not be found . 
Mr Button in his hurry must have forgotten it when he removed the things to the dinghy at all events , it was gone . 
Probably one of the crew of the whalemen had found it and carried it off with him no one could say . 
It was gone , and there was the end of the matter , and the beginning of great tribulation , that lasted Emmeline for a week . 
She was intensely fond of coloured things , coloured flowers especially and she had the prettiest way of making them into a wreath for her own or someone else's head . 
It was the hat making instinct that was at work in her , perhaps at all events , it was a feminine instinct , for Dick made no wreaths . 
One morning , as she was sitting by the old sailor engaged in stringing shells , Dick came running along the edge of the grove . 
He had just come out of the wood , and he seemed to be looking for something . 
Then he found what he was in search of a big shell and with it in his hand made back to the wood . 
His dress was a piece of cocoa nut cloth tied round his middle . 
Why he wore it at all , goodness knows , for he would as often as not be running about stark naked . 
I've found something , Paddy ! he cried , as he disappeared among the trees . 
What have you found ? piped Emmeline , who was always interested in new things . 
Something funny ! came back from amidst the trees . 
Presently he returned but he was not running now . 
He was walking slowly and carefully , holding the shell as if it contained something precious that he was afraid would escape . 
He gave the shell into the old sailor's hands . 
There was about half a gill of yellow liquid in the shell . 
Paddy smelt it , tasted , and gave a shout . 
Rum , begorra ! What is it , Paddy ? asked Emmeline . 
WHERE did you say you got it in the ould bar'l , did you say ? asked Mr Button , who seemed dazed and stunned as if by a blow . 
Yes I pulled the cork thing out DID YIZ PUT IT BACK ? Yes . 
Mr Button scrambled to his feet . 
They followed him through the chapparel till they reached the water source . 
There lay the little green barrel turned over by the restless Dick , it lay with its bung pointing to the leaves above . 
You could see the hollow it had made in the soft soil during the years . 
Mr Button tapped on it with the butt end of the shell it was nearly full . 
Why it had been left there , by whom , or how , there was no one to tell . 
The old lichen covered skulls might have told , could they have spoken . 
We'll rowl it down to the beach , said Paddy , when he had taken another taste of it . 
He gave Dick a sip . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE RAT HUNT They had dinner at noon . 
Paddy knew how to cook fish , island fashion , wrapping them in leaves , and baking them in a hole in the ground in which a fire had previously been lit . 
They had fish and taro root baked , and green cocoa nuts and after dinner Mr Button filled a big shell with rum , and lit his pipe . 
The rum had been good originally , and age had improved it . 
Joviality radiated from him it was infectious . 
The children felt that some happy influence had fallen upon their friend . 
Usually after dinner he was drowsy and wishful to be quiet . 
To day he told them stories of the sea , and sang them songs chantys I'm a flyin' fish sailor come back from Hong Kong , Yeo ho ! blow the man down . 
Blow the man down , bullies , blow the man down , Oh , give us TIME to blow the man down . 
You're a dirty black baller come back from New York , Yeo ho ! blow the man down , Blow the man down , bullies , blow the man down . 
Oh , give us time to blow the man down . 
Oh , give us TIME to blow the man down ! echoed Dick and Emmeline . 
Up above , in the trees , the bright eyed birds were watching them such a happy party . 
There , when the children were in bed and asleep , he repaired with some green cocoa nuts and a shell . 
Hoist up the flag , long may it wave ! Long may it lade us to glory or the grave . 
Stidy , boys , stidy sound the jubilee , For Babylon has fallen , and the slaves are all set free . 
Next morning the musician awoke beside the cask . 
That night he had another musical evening all to himself , and so it went on for a week . 
What is it , Paddy ? said the boy , running up , followed by Emmeline . 
Mr Button was staring at a point on the sand close by . 
He had his right hand raised after the manner of a person who is trying to catch a fly . 
Suddenly he made a grab at the sand , and then opened his hand wide to see what he had caught . 
What is it , Paddy ? The Cluricaune , replied Mr Button . 
All dressed in green he was musha ! musha ! but it's only pretindin' I am . 
The children laughed , and Mr Button laughed in a stupid sort of way . 
Sure , it was only a game I was playin' there was no Cluricaune at all it's whin I dhrink rum it puts it into me head to play games like that . 
He would have risen to fly , only he dared not stand up . 
The children laughed and danced round him as he crawled . 
Look at the rats , Paddy ! look at the rats ! cried Dick . 
They're in front of me ! cried the afflicted one , making a vicious grab at an imaginary rodent's tail . 
Ran dan the bastes ! now they're gone . 
Musha , but it's a fool I'm makin' of meself . 
Go on , Paddy , said Dick don't stop . 
Look there there's more rats coming after you ! Oh , whisht , will you ? replied Paddy , taking his seat on the sand , and wiping his brow . 
The children stood by , disappointed of their game . 
Good acting appeals to children just as much as to grown up people . 
They stood waiting for another excess of humour to take the comedian , and they had not to wait long . 
A thing like a flayed horse came out of the lagoon and up the beach , and this time Button did not crawl away . 
He got on his feet and ran . 
It's a harse that's afther me it's a harse that's afther me ! Dick ! Dick ! hit him a skelp . 
Dick ! Dick ! dhrive him away . 
Hurroo ! Hurroo ! cried Dick , chasing the afflicted one , who was running in a wide circle , his broad red face slewed over his left shoulder . 
Go it , Paddy ! go it , Paddy ! Kape off me , you baste ! shouted Paddy . 
Holy Mary , Mother of God ! I'll land you a kick wid me fut if yiz come nigh me . 
I'm better now , but I'm near wore out , said Mr Button , sitting up on the sand . 
But , bedad , if I'm chased by any more things like them it's into the say I'll be dashin' . 
Dick , lend me your arum . 
He took Dick's arm and wandered over to the shade of the trees . 
Here he threw himself down , and told the children to leave him to sleep . 
They recognised that the game was over and left him . 
And he slept for six hours on end it was the first real sleep he had had for several days . 
When he awoke he was well , but very shaky . 
CHAPTER XIX STARLIGHT ON THE FOAM Mr Button saw no more rats , much to Dick's disappointment . 
He was off the drink . 
At dawn next day he got up , refreshed by a second sleep , and wandered down to the edge of the lagoon . 
The opening in the reef faced the east , and the light of the dawn came rippling in with the flooding tide . 
It's a baste I've been , said the repentant one , a brute baste . 
He was quite wrong as a matter of fact , he was only a man beset and betrayed . 
He stood for a while , cursing the drink , and them that sells it . 
Then he determined to put himself out of the way of temptation . 
He put the cask into the dinghy , and rowed it over to the reef . 
There he placed it in the shelter of a great lump of coral , and rowed back . 
Paddy had been trained all his life to rhythmical drunkenness . 
Four months or so had generally elapsed between his bouts some times six it all depended on the length of the voyage . 
Six months now elapsed before he felt even an inclination to look at the rum cask , that tiny dark spot away on the reef . 
And it was just as well , for during those six months another whale ship arrived , watered and was avoided . 
Blisther it ! said he the say here seems to breed whale ships , and nothin' but whaleships . 
It's like bugs in a bed you kill wan , and then another comes . 
Howsumever , we're shut of thim for a while . 
He walked down to the lagoon edge , looked at the little dark spot and whistled . 
Then he walked back to prepare dinner . 
That little dark spot began to trouble him after a while not it , but the spirit it contained . 
Days grew long and weary , the days that had been so short and pleasant . 
To the children there was no such thing as time . 
Having absolute and perfect health , they enjoyed happiness as far as mortals can enjoy it . 
Emmeline's highly strung nervous system , it is true , developed a headache when she had been too long in the glare of the sun , but they were few and far between . 
The spirit in the little cask had been whispering across the lagoon for some weeks at last it began to shout . 
Mr Button , metaphorically speaking , stopped his ears . 
He busied himself with the children as much as possible . 
One night , to keep the rum from troubling his head , he told them the story of Jack Dogherty and the Merrow , which is well known on the western coast . 
There were some green cocoa nuts that he had plucked that day lying in a little heap under a tree half a dozen or so . 
He took several of these and a shell , found the dinghy where it was moored to the aoa tree , unmoored her , and pushed off into the lagoon . 
The lagoon and sky were full of stars . 
In the dark depths of the water might have been seen phosphorescent gleams of passing fish , and the thunder of the surf on the reef filled the night with its song . 
On a moonlight night it was fine to sit here and watch the great breakers coming in , all marbled and clouded and rainbowed with spindrift and sheets of spray . 
But the snow and the song of them under the diffused light of the stars produced a more indescribably beautiful and strange effect . 
When he had contemplated these sights for a considerable time in complete contentment , he returned to the lagoon side of the reef and sat down beside the little barrel . 
Then , after a while , if you had been standing on the strand opposite , you would have heard scraps of song borne across the quivering water of the lagoon . 
Sailing down , sailing down , On the coast of Barbaree . 
Whether the coast of Barbary in question is that at San Francisco , or the true and proper coast , does not matter . 
He tied up to the aoa , saw that the sculls were safely shipped then , breathing heavily , he cast off his boots for fear of waking the childer . 
As the children were sleeping more than two hundred yards away , this was a needless precaution especially as the intervening distance was mostly soft sand . 
They made Paddy Button swim the lagoon . 
The recollection came to him all at once , as he was walking up the strand towards the wigwam , that he had left the dinghy tied to the reef . 
The dinghy was , as a matter of fact , safe and sound tied to the aoa but Mr Button's memory told him it was tied to the reef . 
He had no time to deal with trifles like these . 
The dinghy had to be fetched across the lagoon , and there was only one way of fetching it . 
So he came back down the beach to the water's edge , cast down his boots , cast off his coat , and plunged in . 
The lagoon was wide , but in his present state of mind he would have swum the Hellespont . 
His figure gone from the beach , the night resumed its majesty and aspect of meditation . 
It was the night patrol of the lagoon , who had heard in some mysterious manner that a drunken sailor man was making trouble in his waters . 
Looking , one listened , hand on heart , for the scream of the arrested one , yet it did not come . 
CHAPTER XX THE DREAMER ON THE REEF I wonder where Paddy is ? cried Dick next morning . 
He was coming out of the chapparel , pulling a dead branch after him . 
He's left his coat on the sand , and the tinder box in it , so I'll make the fire . 
Bother ! He trod the dead stick with his naked feet , breaking it into pieces . 
Emmeline sat on the sand and watched him . 
Emmeline had two gods of a sort Paddy Button and Dick . 
Paddy was almost an esoteric god wrapped in the fumes of tobacco and mystery . 
Dick , the other deity , was a much more understandable personage , but no less admirable , as a companion and protector . 
In the two years and five months of island life he had grown nearly three inches . 
He was as strong as a boy of twelve , and could scull the boat almost as well as Paddy himself , and light a fire . 
Come along , Em , said Dick , piling the broken wood on top of some rotten hibiscus sticks give me the tinder box . 
The fire was soon sparkling and crackling , and he heaped on sticks in profusion , for there was plenty of fuel , and he wanted to cook breadfruit . 
The breadfruit varies in size , according to age , and in colour according to season . 
These that Dick was preparing to cook were as large as small melons . 
Two would be more than enough for three people's breakfast . 
They were green and knobbly on the outside , and they suggested to the mind unripe lemons , rather than bread . 
He cut them open and took the core out the core is not fit to eat and they were ready . 
Meanwhile , Emmeline , under his directions , had not been idle . 
There were in the lagoon there are in several other tropical lagoons I know of a fish which I can only describe as a golden herring . 
A bronze herring it looks when landed , but when swimming away down against the background of coral brains and white sand patches , it has the sheen of burnished gold . 
It is as good to eat as to look at , and Emmeline was carefully toasting several of them on a piece of cane . 
It's so hot ! she cried in self defence , after the first of the accidents . 
Of course it's hot , said Dick , if you stick to looward of the fire . 
You mean to say , said Dick , that you don't know where the wind comes from ? Yes , I know that . 
Well , that's to windward . 
Well , you know it now . 
Yes , I know it now . 
Well , then , come to windward of the fire . 
Why didn't you ask the meaning of it before ? I did , said Emmeline I asked Mr Button one day , and he told me a lot about it . 
Dicky , I wonder where he is ? Paddy ! cried Dick , pausing in the act of splitting open a breadfruit . 
Echoes came from amidst the cocoa nut trees , but nothing more . 
Come on , said Dick I'm not going to wait for him . 
He may have gone to fetch up the night lines they sometimes put down night lines in the lagoon and fallen asleep over them . 
Now , though Emmeline honoured Mr Button as a minor deity , Dick had no illusions at all upon the matter . 
They ought to have had potatoes now , but they had eaten both potatoes and the possibility of potatoes when they consumed the contents of that half sack . 
Young as he was , Dick felt the absolute thriftlessness of this proceeding . 
Emmeline did not she never thought of potatoes , though she could have told you the colour of all the birds on the island . 
Dick came of the people who make sewing machines and typewriters . 
Mr Button came of a people notable for ballads , tender hearts , and potheen . 
That was the main difference . 
Paddy ! again cried the boy , when he had eaten as much as he wanted . 
Hullo ! where are you ? They listened , but no answer came . 
He ran through the grove towards the aoa where the dinghy was moored then he returned . 
The dinghy is all right , he said . 
Where on earth can he be ? I don't know , said Emmeline , upon whose heart a feeling of loneliness had fallen . 
Let's go up the hill , said Dick perhaps we'll find him there . 
They went uphill through the wood , past the water course . 
Every now and then Dick would call out , and echoes would answer there were quaint , moist voiced echoes amidst the trees or a bevy of birds would take flight . 
The little waterfall gurgled and whispered , and the great banana leaves spread their shade . 
Come on , said Dick , when he had called again without receiving a reply . 
They found the hill top , and the great boulder stood casting its shadow in the sun . 
The morning breeze was blowing , the sea sparkling , the reef flashing , the foliage of the island waving in the wind like the flames of a green flamed torch . 
A deep swell was spreading itself across the bosom of the Pacific . 
Some hurricane away beyond the Navigators or Gilberts had sent this message and was finding its echo here , a thousand miles away , in the deeper thunder of the reef . 
Nowhere else in the world could you get such a picture , such a combination of splendour and summer , such a vision of freshness and strength , and the delight of morning . 
It was the smallness of the island , perhaps , that closed the charm and made it perfect . 
Just a bunch of foliage and flowers set in the midst of the blowing wind and sparkling blue . 
Suddenly Dick , standing beside Emmeline on the rock , pointed with his finger to the reef near the opening . 
There he is ! cried he . 
He's asleep , said Dick . 
He had not thought to look towards the reef from the beach , or he might have seen the figure before . 
I'll tell you what , Em , we'll row across and wake him . 
I'll boo into his ear and make him jump . 
They got down from the rock , and came back down through the wood . 
As they came Emmeline picked flowers and began making them up into one of her wreaths . 
Some scarlet hibiscus , some bluebells , a couple of pale poppies with furry stalks and bitter perfume . 
What are you making that for ? asked Dick , who always viewed Emmeline's wreath making with a mixture of compassion and vague disgust . 
I'm going to put it on Mr Button's head , said Emmeline so's when you say boo into his ear he'll jump up with it on . 
The dinghy was moored under the spreading shade of the aoa , the painter tied to one of the branches that projected over the water . 
These dwarf aoas branch in an extraordinary way close to the ground , throwing out limbs like rails . 
It was a new boat to start with , and with precautions like these might be expected to last many years . 
Get in , said Dick , pulling on the painter so that the bow of the dinghy came close to the beach . 
Emmeline got carefully in , and went aft . 
Then Dick got in , pushed off , and took to the sculls . 
Next moment they were out on the sparkling water . 
Dick rowed cautiously , fearing to wake the sleeper . 
He fastened the painter to the coral spike that seemed set there by nature for the purpose . 
He scrambled on to the reef , and lying down on his stomach drew the boat's gunwale close up so that Emmeline might land . 
He had no boots on the soles of his feet , from constant exposure , had become insensitive as leather . 
Emmeline also was without boots . 
It was full tide , and the thunder of the waves outside shook the reef . 
It was like being in a church when the deep bass of the organ is turned full on , shaking the ground and the air , the walls and the roof . 
Dashes of spray came over with the wind , and the melancholy Hi , hi ! of the wheeling gulls came like the voices of ghostly sailor men hauling at the halyards . 
Paddy was lying on his right side steeped in profound oblivion . 
His face was buried in the crook of his right arm , and his brown tattooed left hand lay on his left thigh , palm upwards . 
He had no hat , and the breeze stirred his grizzled hair . 
Dick and Emmeline stole up to him till they got right beside him . 
Then Emmeline , flashing out a laugh , flung the little wreath of flowers on the old man's head , and Dick , popping down on his knees , shouted into his ear . 
But the dreamer did not stir or move a finger . 
Paddy , cried Dick , wake up ! wake up ! He pulled at the shoulder till the figure from its sideways posture fell over on its back . 
The eyes were wide open and staring . 
The mouth hung open , and from the mouth darted a little crab it scuttled over the chin and dropped on the coral . 
Emmeline screamed , and screamed , and would have fallen , but the boy caught her in his arms one side of the face had been destroyed by the larvae of the rocks . 
He held her to him as he stared at the terrible figure lying upon its back , hands outspread . 
Then , wild with terror , he dragged her towards the little boat . 
She was struggling , and panting and gasping , like a person drowning in ice cold water . 
His one instinct was to escape , to fly anywhere , no matter where . 
He dragged the girl to the coral edge , and pulled the boat up close . 
Had the reef suddenly become enveloped in flames he could not have exerted himself more to escape from it and save his companion . 
A moment later they were afloat , and he was pulling wildly for the shore . 
The boat grounded on the white sand , and the wash of the incoming tide drove it up sideways . 
Emmeline had fallen forward she had lost consciousness . 
They did not speak about him . 
Something had been done to him something had happened . 
Something terrible had happened to the wor d they knew . 
But they dared not speak of it or question each other . 
But not a word of the thing that had happened . 
The thing , for them , had no precedent , and no vocabulary . 
They had come across death raw and real , uncooked by religion , un deodorised by the sayings of sages and poets . 
That was the vision before them . 
Lestrange had brought them up in his own way . 
This knowledge of the Almighty , therefore , was but a half knowledge , the vaguest abstraction . 
Had they been brought up , however , in the most strictly Calvinistic school , this knowledge of Him would have been no comfort now . 
Belief in God is no comfort to a frightened child . 
During that dreadful night these two children had no comfort to seek anywhere in the whole wide universe but in each other . 
She , in a sense of his protection , he , in a sense of being her protector . 
The manliness in him greater and more beautiful than physical strength , developed in those dark hours just as a plant under extraordinary circumstances is hurried into bloom . 
Towards dawn Emmeline fell asleep . 
The dawn was just breaking , and the morning breeze was coming in from the sea . 
When he had beached the dinghy the day before , the tide was just at the flood , and it had left her stranded . 
The tide was coming in now , and in a short time it would be far enough up to push her off . 
Emmeline in the night had implored him to take her away . 
Take her away somewhere from there , and he had promised , without knowing in the least how he was to perform his promise . 
He ran down to where the little boat lay on the shelving sand , with the ripples of the incoming tide just washing the rudder , which was still shipped . 
He unshipped the rudder and came back . 
Under a tree , covered with the stay sail they had brought from the Shenandoah , lay most of their treasures old clothes and boots , and all the other odds and ends . 
The precious tobacco stitched up in a piece of canvas was there , and the housewife with the needles and threads . 
A hole had been dug in the sand as a sort of cache for them , and the stay sail put over them to protect them from the dew . 
The sun was now looking over the sealine , and the tall cocoa nut trees were singing and whispering together under the strengthen ing breeze . 
CHAPTER XXIII THEY MOVE AWAY He began to collect the things , and carry them to the dinghy . 
Then he found the remains of yesterday's breakfast , which he had hidden between two palmetto leaves , and placed it also in the boat . 
The water was now so high that a strong push would float her . 
He turned back to the hut for Emmeline . 
She was still asleep so soundly asleep , that when he lifted her up in his arms she made no movement . 
He placed her carefully in the stern sheets with her head on the sail rolled up , and then standing in the bow pushed off with a scull . 
Then , taking the sculls , he turned the boat's head up the lagoon to the left . 
He kept close to the shore , but for the life of him he could not help lifting his eyes and looking towards the reef . 
Round a certain spot on the distant white coral there was a great commotion of birds . 
He turned his head away till a bend of the shore hid the spot from sight . 
A lake in the midst of the ocean , that is what the lagoon really was . 
Here and there cocoa nut trees slanted over the water , mirroring their delicate stems , and tracing their clear cut shadows on the sandy bottom a fathom deep below . 
He kept close in shore for the sake of the shelter of the trees . 
His object was to find some place where they might stop permanently , and put up a tent . 
He was seeking a new home , in fact . 
But , pretty as were the glades they passed , they were not attractive places to live in . 
There were too many trees , or the ferns were too deep . 
He was seeking air and space , and suddenly he found it . 
Rounding a little cape , all blazing with the scarlet of the wild cocoa nut , the dinghy broke into a new world . 
The pale colour of the water was due to the extreme shallowness of the lagoon just here . 
So shallow was it that one could see brown spaces indicating beds of dead and rotten coral , and splashes of darkest sapphire where the deep pools lay . 
Dick rested on his oars , and let the dinghy float whilst he looked around him . 
He had come some four miles and a half , and this was right at the back of the island . 
As the boat drifting shoreward touched the bank , Emmeline awakened from her sleep , sat up , and looked around her . 
It was not much larger than a big hen house , but quite sufficient for the needs of two people in a climate of eternal summer . 
The breadfruit tree was barren of fruit , as these trees sometimes are , whole groves of them ceasing to bear for some mysterious reason only known to Nature . 
It was green now , but when suffering its yearly change the great scalloped leaves would take all imaginable tinges of gold and bronze and amber . 
Beyond the artu was a little clearing , where the chapparel had been carefully removed and taro roots planted . 
Stepping from the house doorway on to the sward you might have fancied yourself , except for the tropical nature of the foliage , in some English park . 
The house had a doorway , but no door . 
It might have been said to have a double roof , for the breadfruit foliage above gave good shelter during the rains . 
Inside it was bare enough . 
Dried , sweet smelling ferns covered the floor . 
Two sails , rolled up , lay on either side of the doorway . 
There was a rude shelf attached to one of the walls , and on the shelf some bowls made of cocoa nut shell . 
The people to whom the place belonged evidently did not trouble it much with their presence , using it only at night , and as a refuge from the dew . 
Sitting on the grass by the doorway , sheltered by the breadfruit shade , yet with the hot rays of the afternoon sun just touching her naked feet , was a girl . 
A girl of fifteen or sixteen , naked , except for a kilt of gaily striped material reaching from her waist to her knees . 
Her long black hair was drawn back from the forehead , and tied behind with a loop of the elastic vine . 
A scarlet blossom was stuck behind her right ear , after the fashion of a clerk's pen . 
Her face was beautiful , powdered with tiny freckles especially under the eyes , which were of a deep , tranquil blue grey . 
The girl was Emmeline Lestrange . 
Just by her elbow stood a little bowl made from half a cocoa nut , and filled with some white substance with which she was feeding the bird . 
Dick had found it in the woods two years ago , quite small , deserted by its mother , and starving . 
They had fed it and tamed it , and it was now one of the family , roosting on the roof at night , and appearing regularly at meal times . 
And the whole thing , as far as the beauty of her was concerned , had happened during the last six months . 
CHAPTER II HALF CHILD HALF SAVAGE Five rainy seasons had passed and gone since the tragic occurrence on the reef . 
Five long years the breakers had thundered , and the sea gulls had cried round the figure whose spell had drawn a mysterious barrier across the lagoon . 
The children had never returned to the old place . 
For , of the few ships that touched at the island in the course of years , how many would explore the lagoon or woods ? Perhaps not one . 
Occasionally Dick would make an excursion in the dinghy to the old place , but Emmeline refused to accompany him . 
She had never quite recovered from the occurrence on the reef . 
Something had been shown to her , the purport of which she vaguely understood , and it had filled her with horror and a terror of the place where it had occurred . 
He had been frightened enough at first but the feeling wore away in time . 
Dick had built three houses in succession during the five years . 
He had laid out a patch of taro and another of sweet potatoes . 
This made him unhappy at times , for he was human . 
In a few minutes he appeared , dragging after him two canes which he had just cut , and wiping the perspiration off his brow with his naked arm . 
What are you making ? asked Emmeline , releasing the bird , which flew into one of the branches of the artu and rested there , a blue point amidst the dark green . 
Fish spear , replied Dick . 
Without being taciturn , he rarely wasted words . 
Life was all business for him . 
As for Emmeline , even as a child she had never been talkative . 
There was something mysterious in her personality , something secretive . 
Her mind seemed half submerged in twilight . 
What she found there no one knew least of all , perhaps , herself . 
He seemed entirely bound up in the moment , and to have forgotten the past as completely as though it had never been . 
Yet he had his contemplative moods . 
The birds came so close that he could easily have knocked them over , but he never hurt one or interfered in any way with the wild life of the woods . 
The island , the lagoon , and the reef were for him the three volumes of a great picture book , as they were for Emmeline , though in a different manner . 
The colour and the beauty of it all fed some mysterious want in her soul . 
Her life was a long reverie , a beautiful vision troubled with shadows . 
But she never spoke of these things to Dick . 
Born of these things there remained with her always a vague terror the terror of losing Dick . 
Mrs Stannard , her uncle , the dim people she had known in Boston , all had passed away out of her life like a dream and shadows . 
The other one too , most horribly . 
But lately it had altered and become more acute . 
Dick had changed in her eyes , and the fear was now for him . 
Her own personality had suddenly and strangely become merged in his . 
The idea of life without him was unthinkable , yet the trouble remained , a menace in the blue . 
Some days it would be worse than others . 
To day , for instance , it was worse than yesterday , as though some danger had crept close to them during the night . 
Yet the sky and sea were stainless , the sun shone on tree and flower , the west wind brought the tune of the far away reef like a lullaby . 
There was nothing to hint of danger or the need of distrust . 
At last Dick finished his spear and rose to his feet . 
Where are you going ? asked Emmeline . 
The reef , he replied . 
I'll go with you , said she . 
He went into the house and stowed the precious knife away . 
Then he came out , spear in one hand , and half a fathom of liana in the other . 
The liana was for the purpose of stringing the fish on , should the catch be large . 
He led the way down the grassy sward to the lagoon where the dinghy lay , close up to the bank , and moored to a post driven into the soft soil . 
Emmeline got in , and , taking the sculls , he pushed off . 
The tide was going out . 
I have said that the reef just here lay a great way out from the shore . 
There were also other dangers . 
Tropical shallows are full of wild surprises in the way of life and death . 
Half way across the sound of the surf on the barrier became louder , and the everlasting and monotonous cry of the gulls came on the breeze . 
It was lonely out here , and , looking back , the shore seemed a great way off . 
It was lonelier still on the reef . 
Dick tied up the boat to a projection of coral , and helped Emmeline to land . 
The sun was creeping down into the west , the tide was nearly half out , and large pools of water lay glittering like burnished shields in the sunlight . 
Dick , with his precious spear beside him , sat calmly down on a ledge of coral , and began to divest himself of his one and only garment . 
Emmeline turned away her head and contemplated the distant shore , which seemed thrice as far off as it was in reality . 
When she turned her head again he was racing along the edge of the surf . 
He and his spear silhouetted against the spindrift and dazzling foam formed a picture savage enough , and well in keeping with the general desolation of the background . 
He was quite different out here on the reef to what he was ashore . 
CHAPTER III THE DEMON OF THE REEF The romance of coral has still to be written . 
There still exists a widespread opinion that the coral reef and the coral island are the work of an insect . 
He is the hobo of the animal world , but , unlike the hobo , he does not even tramp for a living . 
On a coral reef you are treading on rock that the reef building polypifers of ages have left behind them as evidences of their idle and apparently useless lives . 
You might fancy that the reef is formed of dead rock , but it is not that is where the wonder of the thing comes in a coral reef is half alive . 
If it were not , it would not resist the action of the sea ten years . 
The live part of the reef is just where the breakers come in and beyond . 
The gelatinous rock building polypifers die almost at once , if exposed to the sun or if left uncovered by water . 
Those in the uppermost cells are usually dead , but lower down they are living . 
Always dying , always being renewed , devoured by fish , attacked by the sea that is the life of a coral reef . 
It is a thing as living as a cabbage or a tree . 
Every storm tears a piece off the reef , which the living coral replaces wounds occur in it which actually granulate and heal as wounds do of the human body . 
, the reef forms the island . 
The reef may be grown over by trees , or it may be perfectly destitute of important vegetation , or it may be crusted with islets . 
Vliegen atoll in the Low Archipelago , measured from lagoon edge to lagoon edge , is sixty miles long by twenty miles broad , at its broadest part . 
The story of coral is the story of a world , and the longest chapter in that story concerns itself with coral's infinite variety and form . 
Out on the margin of the reef where Dick was spearing fish , you might have seen a peach blossom coloured lichen on the rock . 
This lichen was a form of coral . 
Coral growing upon coral , and in the pools at the edge of the surf branching corals also of the colour of a peach bloom . 
Dick had speared several fish , and had left them lying on the reef to be picked up later on . 
Tired of killing , he was now wandering along , examining the various living things he came across . 
Huge slugs inhabited the reef , slugs as big as parsnips , and somewhat of the same shape they were a species of Bech de mer . 
These and a thousand other things , beautiful or strange , were to be found on the reef . 
Dick had laid his spear down , and was exploring a deep bath like pool . 
He had waded up to his knees , and was in the act of wading further when he was suddenly seized by the foot . 
It was just as if his ankle had been suddenly caught in a clove hitch and the rope drawn tight . 
CHAPTER IV WHAT BEAUTY CONCEALED Emmeline , seated on the coral rock , had almost forgotten Dick for a moment . 
The sun was setting , and the warm amber light of the sunset shone on reef and rock pool . 
Just at sunset and low tide the reef had a peculiar fascination for her . 
It had the low tide smell of sea weed exposed to the air , and the torment and trouble of the breakers seemed eased . 
Here , just as on the hill top at the other side of the island , you could mark the rhythm of the rollers . 
Forever , and forever forever , and forever , they seemed to say . 
The cry of the gulls came mixed with the spray on the breeze . 
She turned from the sea prospect and looked backwards over the lagoon to the island . 
Over woods the fronds of the great cocoa nut palms showed above every other tree silhouetted against the dim , dark blue of the eastern sky . 
Seen by the enchanted light of sunset , the whole picture had an unreal look , more lovely than a dream . 
Emmeline always imagined herself alone on the island with Dick , but beauty was there , too , and beauty is a great companion . 
The girl was contemplating the scene before her . 
Nature in her friendliest mood seemed to say , Behold me ! Men call me cruel men have called me deceitful , even treacherous . 
I ah well ! my answer is , Behold me ! The girl was contemplating the specious beauty of it all , when on the breeze from seaward came a shout . 
There was Dick up to his knees in a rockpool a hundred yards or so away , motionless , his arms upraised , and crying out for help . 
She sprang to her feet . 
Emmeline in her bare feet could never have reached him in time over rough coral , but , fortunately , this flat and comparatively smooth surface lay between them . 
My spear ! shouted Dick , as she approached . 
She ran with the speed of Atalanta to the rock where the spear was resting , all red with the blood of new slain fish , a foot from the point . 
As she approached Dick , spear in hand , she saw , gasping with terror , that the ropes were alive , and that they were flickering and rippling over his back . 
One of them bound his left arm to his side , but his right arm was free . 
She was , despite her terror , quite prepared to fling herself in and do battle with the thing , whatever it might be . 
What she saw was only for a second . 
In the deep water of the pool , gazing up and forward and straight at Dick , she saw a face , lugubrious and awful . 
The eyes were wide as saucers , stony and steadfast a large , heavy , parrot like beak hung before the eyes , and worked and wobbled , and seemed to beckon . 
From away far down he had risen with the rising tide . 
He had been feeding on crabs , when the tide , betraying him , had gone out , leaving him trapped in the rock pool . 
He had slept , perhaps , and awakened to find a being , naked and defenceless , invading his pool . 
He was quite small , as octopods go , and young , yet he was large and powerful enough to have drowned an ox . 
The octopod has only been described once , in stone , by a Japanese artist . 
The statue is still extant , and it is the most terrible masterpiece of sculpture ever executed by human hands . 
It represents a man who has been bathing on a low tide beach , and has been caught . 
The man is shouting in a delirium of terror , and threatening with his free arm the spectre that has him in its grip . 
The eyes of the octopod are fixed upon the man passionless and lugubrious eyes , but steadfast and fixed . 
Another whip lash shot out of the water in a shower of spray , and seized Dick by the left thigh . 
At the same moment the water of the pool became black as ink , the bands around him relaxed , and he was free . 
Emmeline rose up and seized him , sobbing and clinging to him , and kissing him . 
He clasped her with his left arm round her body , as if to protect her , but it was a mechanical action . 
He was not thinking of her . 
Then slowly he came to himself , and wiped his forehead , and looked at the broken spear in his hand . 
One might have thought that he had rescued her from death , not she him . 
The sun had nearly vanished , and he led her back to where the dinghy was moored , recapturing and putting on his trousers on the road . 
And he would just as soon have thought of thanking her for handing him the spear as of thanking his right hand for driving it home . 
She was quite content , seeking neither thanks nor praise . 
Everything she had came from him she was his shadow and his slave . 
The reiteration was tiresome enough , or would have been to an outside listener , but to Emmeline it was better than Homer . 
People's minds do not improve in an intellectual sense when they are isolated from the world , even though they are living the wild and happy lives of savages . 
A new terror had come into her life . 
She had seen death for the second time , but this time active and in being . 
CHAPTER V THE SOUND OF A DRUM The next day Dick was sitting under the shade of the artu . 
He had the box of fishhooks beside him , and he was bending a line on to one of them . 
There had originally been a couple of dozen hooks , large and small , in the box there remained now only six four small and two large ones . 
It was late afternoon , and the heat had gone out of the day . 
Emmeline , seated on the grass opposite to him , was holding the end of the line , whilst he got the kinks out of it , when suddenly she raised her head . 
All at once another sound mixed itself with the voice of the surf a faint , throbbing sound , like the beating of a distant drum . 
Dick paused for a moment in his work . 
All the sounds of the island were familiar this was something quite strange . 
As they listened , a sigh came from overhead the evening breeze had risen and was moving in the leaves of the artu tree . 
Just as you might wipe a picture off a slate , the breeze banished the sound . 
Dick went on with his work . 
Next morning early he embarked in the dinghy . 
He took the hook and line with him , and some raw fish for bait . 
Emmeline helped him to push off , and stood on the bank waving her hand as he rounded the little cape covered with wild cocoa nut . 
These expeditions of Dick's were one of her sorrows . 
To be left alone was frightful yet she never complained . 
Dick rowed for about a mile , then he shipped his sculls , and let the dinghy float . 
The water here was very deep so deep that , despite its clearness , the bottom was invisible the sunlight over the reef struck through it diagonally , filling it with sparkles . 
Sometimes there was nothing to see but just the deep blue of the water . 
Then a flight of spangled arrowheads would cross the line of sight and vanish , pursued by a form like a moving bar of gold . 
Suddenly the dinghy shored over , and might have capsized , only for the fact that Dick was sitting on the opposite side to the side from which the line hung . 
Then the boat righted the line slackened , and the surface of the lagoon , a few fathoms away , boiled as if being stirred from below by a great silver stick . 
He had hooked an albicore . 
He tied the end of the fishing line to a scull , undid the line from the thole pin , and flung the scull overboard . 
He did all this with wonderful rapidity , while the line was still slack . 
Next moment the scull was rushing over the surface of the lagoon , now towards the reef , now towards the shore , now flat , now end up . 
Now it would be jerked under the surface entirely vanish for a moment , and then reappear . 
It was a most astonishing thing to watch , for the scull seemed alive viciously alive , and imbued with some destructive purpose as , in fact , it was . 
The most venomous of living things , and the most intelligent could not have fought the great fish better . 
The albicore would make a frantic dash down the lagoon , hoping , perhaps , to find in the open sea a release from his foe . 
An hour passed before the great fish showed signs of weakening . 
Dick , working the remaining oar at the stern of the boat , rowed out and seized the floating scull , bringing it on board . 
Foot by foot he hauled his catch towards the boat till the long gleaming line of the thing came dimly into view . 
The fight had been heard for miles through the lagoon water by all sorts of swimming things . 
The lord of the place had got sound of it . 
The line came in slack , and Dick hauled in the albicore's head . 
It had been divided from the body as if with a huge pair of shears . 
He had come off best in this their first encounter such as it was . 
CHAPTER VI SAILS UPON THE SEA Dick put the hook away and took to the sculls . 
He had a three mile row before him , and the tide was coming in , which did not make it any the easier . 
As he rowed , he talked and grumbled to himself . 
He had been in a grumbling mood for some time past the chief cause , Emmeline . 
In the last few months she had changed even her face had changed . 
A new person had come upon the island , it seemed to him , and taken the place of the Emmeline he had known from earliest childhood . 
But lately a spirit of restlessness had come upon him he did not know exactly what he wanted . 
It may have been the spirit of civilisation crying out in him , telling him of all he was missing . 
Of the cities , and the streets , and the houses , and the businesses , and the striving after gold , the striving after power . 
It may have been simply the man in him crying out for Love , and not knowing yet that Love was at his elbow . 
Always when he came on these expeditions , just here , he would hang on his oars and gaze over there , where the gulls were flying and the breakers thundering . 
He gazed for a while , then he went on pulling , and the dinghy approached the beach . 
Something had happened on the beach . 
A South Sea man would have told from the shape of the grooves , and the little marks of the out riggers , that two heavy canoes had been beached there . 
What happened then had better be left veiled . 
Dick pulled the nose of the boat up a bit on the strand , then he looked around him . 
He picked up a broken spear that had been cast away or forgotten it was made of some hard wood and barbed with iron . 
On the right hand side of the beach something lay between the cocoa nut trees . 
The sand on the beach was eloquent . 
Whoever had been , had gone he could tell that by the canoe traces . 
Gone either out to sea , or up the right stretch of the lagoon . 
It was important to determine this . 
He climbed to the hill top and swept the sea with his eyes . 
There , away to the south west , far away on the sea , he could distinguish the brown sails of two canoes . 
There was something indescribably mournful and lonely in their appearance they looked like withered leaves brown moths blown to sea derelicts of autumn . 
Then , remembering the beach , these things became freighted with the most sinister thoughts for the mind of the gazer . 
They were hurrying away , having done their work . 
That they looked lonely and old and mournful , and like withered leaves blown across the sea , only heightened the horror . 
Dick had never seen canoes before , but he knew that these things were boats of some sort holding people , and that the people had left all those traces on the beach . 
Whenever he came round to this side of the island , something happened of a fateful or sinister nature . 
Another time he had fallen out of a tree , and just by a miracle escaped death . 
Another time a hurricane had broken , lashing the lagoon into snow , and sending the cocoa nuts bounding and flying like tennis balls across the strand . 
This time he had just escaped something , he knew not exactly what . 
It was almost as if Providence were saying to him , Don't come here . 
He watched the brown sails as they dwindled in the wind blown blue , then he came down from the hill top and cut his bananas . 
He cut four large bunches , which caused him to make two journeys to the boat . 
When the bananas were stowed he pushed off . 
For a long time a great curiosity had been pulling at his heart strings a curiosity of which he was dimly ashamed . 
Fear had given it birth , and Fear still clung to it . 
It was , perhaps , the element of fear and the awful delight of daring the unknown that made him give way to it . 
He had rowed , perhaps , a hundred yards when he turned the boat's head and made for the reef . 
It was more than five years since that day when he rowed across the lagoon , Emmeline sitting in the stern , with her wreath of flowers in her hand . 
It might have been only yesterday , for everything seemed just the same . 
The thunderous surf and the flying gulls , the blinding sunlight , and the salt , fresh smell of the sea . 
From the beach there was visible just a speck . 
It might have been , perhaps , a bit of old wreckage flung there by a wave in some big storm . 
A piece of old wreckage that had been tossed hither and thither for years , and had at last found a place of rest . 
Dick tied the boat up , and stepped on to the reef . 
Beside the barrel lay a skeleton , round which lay a few rags of cloth . 
It was all white and bleached , and the sun shone on it as indifferently as on the coral , this shell and framework that had once been a man . 
There was nothing dreadful about it , but a whole world of wonder . 
If you had asked him what lay before him , and if he could have expressed the thought in his mind , he would have answered you change . 
All the philosophy in the world could not have told him more than he knew just then about death he , who even did not know its name . 
He was held spellbound by the marvel and miracle of the thing and the thoughts that suddenly crowded his mind like a host of spectres for whom a door has just been opened . 
And still the wonder of the thing held him . 
The full fact of universal death suddenly appeared before him , and he recognised it . 
He stood for a long time motionless , and then with a deep sigh turned to the boat and pushed off without once looking back at the reef . 
He crossed the lagoon and rowed slowly homewards , keeping in the shelter of the tree shadows as much as possible . 
Even looking at him from the shore you might have noticed a difference in him . 
Dick , as he rowed back , did not look about him he was thinking or retrospecting . 
The savage in him had received a check . 
As he turned the little cape where the wild cocoanut blazed , he looked over his shoulder . 
A figure was standing on the sward by the edge of the water . 
CHAPTER VII THE SCHOONER They carried the bananas up to the house , and hung them from a branch of the artu . 
Then Dick , on his knees , lit the fire to prepare the evening meal . 
When it was over he went down to where the boat was moored , and returned with something in his hand . 
It was the javelin with the iron point or , rather , the two pieces of it . 
He had said nothing of what he had seen to the girl . 
It was on the beach over there , he replied , taking his seat and examining the two fragments to see how he could splice them together . 
Emmeline looked at the pieces , putting them together in her mind . 
She did not like the look of the thing so keen and savage , and stained dark a foot and more from the point . 
People had been there , said Dick , putting the two pieces together and examining the fracture critically . 
This was lying on the sand , and the sand was all trod up . 
Dick , said Emmeline , who were the people ? I don't know I went up the hill and saw their boats going away far away out . 
This was lying on the sand . 
Dick , said Emmeline , do you remember the noise yesterday ? Yes , said Dick . 
I heard it in the night . 
When ? In the night before the moon went away . 
That was them , said Dick . 
Dick ! Yes ? Who were they ? I don't know , replied Dick . 
It was in the night , before the moon went away , and it went on and on beating in the trees . 
I thought I heard voices , said Emmeline , but I was not sure . 
She fell into meditation , watching her companion at work on the savage and sinister looking thing in his hands . 
He was splicing the two pieces together with a strip of the brown cloth like stuff which is wrapped round the stalks of the cocoa palm fronds . 
The thing seemed to have been hurled here out of the blue by some unseen hand . 
He felt a keen delight in it . 
It was useless as a fish spear , because it had no barb , but it was a weapon . 
It was useless as a weapon , because there was no foe on the island to use it against still , it was a weapon . 
They crossed over to the reef , where , as usual , he divested himself of clothing . 
It was strange that out here he would go about stark naked , yet on the island he always wore some covering . 
But not so strange , perhaps , after all . 
The sea is a great purifier , both of the mind and the body before that great sweet spirit people do not think in the same way as they think far inland . 
In a minute he was down by the edge of the surf , javelin in one hand , fish spear in the other . 
She had sat some time like this when a shout from Dick aroused her . 
She started to her feet and gazed to where he was pointing . 
An amazing thing was there . 
Dick , with the javelin in his hand , was standing gazing at her he had dropped his fishspear , and he stood as motionless as though he were carved out of stone . 
Emmeline ran to him and stood beside him neither of them spoke a word as the vessel drew closer . 
A crowd of men were hanging over the port bulwarks gazing at the island and the figures on the reef . 
They are going away , said Emmeline , with a long drawn breath of relief . 
As a matter of fact , she had been on the point of putting about . 
Her captain had for a moment been undecided as to whether the forms on the reef were those of castaways or savages . 
But the javelin in Dick's hand had turned the scale of his opinion in favour of the theory of savages . 
CHAPTER VIII LOVE STEPS IN Two birds were sitting in the branches of the artu tree Koko had taken a mate . 
The doings in the artu branches greatly interested Emmeline . 
The love making and the nest building were conducted quite in the usual manner , according to rules laid down by Nature and carried out by men and birds . 
It was some days after the appearance of the schooner , and Dick was making ready to go into the woods and pick guavas . 
He had all the morning been engaged in making a basket to carry them in . 
The place they were going to always filled her with a vague dread not for a great deal would she have gone there alone . 
Dick had discovered it in one of his rambles . 
They entered the wood and passed a little well , a well without apparent source or outlet and a bottom of fine white sand . 
They left this to the right and struck into the heart of the wood . 
Right across this path , half lost in shadow , half sunlit , the lianas hung their ropes . 
The hotoo tree , with its powdering of delicate blossoms , here stood , showing its lost loveliness to the sun in the shade the scarlet hibiscus burned like a flame . 
Artu and breadfruit trees and cocoa nut bordered the way . 
As they proceeded the trees grew denser and the path more obscure . 
All at once , rounding a sharp turn , the path ended in a valley carpeted with fern . 
This was the place that always filled Emmeline with an undefined dread . 
Trees grew along the terraces , thrusting their roots between the interstices of the blocks . 
This figure and the terraces , the valley itself , and the very trees that grew there , inspired Emmeline with deep curiosity and vague fear . 
It was indeed an uncanny place to be alone in even under the broad light of day . 
All across the Pacific for thousands of miles you find relics of the past , like these scattered through the islands . 
These temple places are nearly all the same great terraces of stone , massive idols , desolation overgrown with foliage . 
Round these places the woods are thicker than elsewhere , hinting at the presence there , once , of sacred groves . 
The idols are immense , their faces are vague the storms and the suns and the rains of the ages have cast over them a veil . 
He seemed for ever listening unconsciously one fell to listening too , and then the valley seemed steeped in a supernatural silence . 
He was not good to be alone with . 
Emmeline sat down amidst the fears just at his base . 
When one was close up to him he lost the suggestion of life , and was simply a great stone which cast a shadow in the sun . 
Dick threw himself down also to rest . 
Then he rose up and went off amidst the guava bushes , plucking the fruit and filling his basket . 
He came back with his basket full of the ripe fruit , gave some to the girl and sat down beside her . 
When she had finished eating them she took the cane that he used for carrying the basket and held it in her hands . 
She was bending it in the form of a bow when it slipped , flew out and struck her companion a sharp blow on the side of his face . 
Almost on the instant he turned and slapped her on the shoulder . 
She stared at him for a moment in troubled amazement , a sob came in her throat . 
Then some veil seemed lifted , some wizard's wand stretched out , some mysterious vial broken . 
As she looked at him like that , he suddenly and fiercely clasped her in his arms . 
He held her like this for a moment , dazed , stupefied , not knowing what to do with her . 
Then her lips told him , for they met his in an endless kiss . 
CHAPTER IX THE SLEEP OF PARADISE The moon rose up that evening and shot her silver arrows at the house under the artu tree . 
Then the moon came across the sea and across the reef . 
She lit the lagoon to its dark , dim heart . 
She lit the coral brains and sand spaces , and the fish , casting their shadows on the sand and the coral . 
The keeper of the lagoon rose to greet her , and the fin of him broke her reflection on the mirror like surface into a thousand glittering ripples . 
She saw the white staring ribs of the form on the reef . 
At his base , in his shadow , looking as if under his protection , lay two human beings , naked , clasped in each other's arms , and fast asleep . 
One could scarcely pity his vigil , had it been marked sometimes through the years by such an incident as this . 
The thing had been conducted just as the birds conduct their love affairs . 
An affair absolutely natural , absolutely blameless , and without sin . 
It was a marriage according to Nature , without feast or guests , consummated with accidental cynicism under the shadow of a religion a thousand years dead . 
The birds on the tree above were equally as happy in their ignorance , and in their love . 
There were several pale green eggs in it . 
He did not disturb them , but climbed down again , and the bird resumed her seat as if nothing had happened . 
Dick had lost his restlessness his wish to wander had vanished . 
He had no reason to wander perhaps that was the reason why . 
In all the broad earth he could not have found anything more desirable than what he had . 
Instead now of finding a half naked savage followed dog like by his mate , you would have found of an evening a pair of lovers wandering on the reef . 
They had in a pathetic sort of way attempted to adorn the house with a blue flowering creeper taken from the wood and trained over the entrance . 
Emmeline , up to this , had mostly done the cooking , such as it was Dick helped her now , always . 
It was a curious mind the mind of a dreamer , almost the mind of a poet . 
The Cluricaunes dwelt there , and vague shapes born of things she had heard about or dreamt of she had thoughts about the sea and stars , the flowers and birds . 
Dick would listen to her as she talked , as a man might listen to the sound of a rivulet . 
His practical mind could take no share in the dreams of his other half , but her conversation pleased him . 
He would look at her for a long time together , absorbed in thought . 
He breathed her as one does the perfume of a rose . 
Her ears were small , and like little white shells . 
Her breasts , her shoulders , her knees , her little feet , every bit of her , he would examine and play with and kiss . 
She would lie and let him , seeming absorbed in some far away thought , of which he was the object , then all at once her arms would go round him . 
Not all their time would be spent in this fashion . 
Dick was just as keen after the fish . 
They were , in short , as busy as they could be in such a climate , but love making would come on them in fits , and then everything would be forgotten . 
The absolute happiness of wandering through the woods together , discovering new flowers , getting lost , and finding their way again , was a thing beyond expression . 
Dick had suddenly stumbled upon Love . 
His courtship had lasted only some twenty minutes it was being gone over again now , and extended . 
One day , hearing a curious noise from the tree above the house , he climbed it . 
The noise came from the nest , which had been temporarily left by the mother bird . 
A few days ago each of these things was imprisoned in a pale green egg . 
A month ago they were nowhere . 
Something hit Dick on the cheek . 
It was the mother bird returned with food for the young ones . 
Dick drew his head aside , and she proceeded without more ado to fill their crops . 
CHAPTER XI THE VANISHING OF EMMELINE Months passed away . 
Only one bird remained in the branches of the artu Koko's children and mate had vanished , but he remained . 
The breadfruit leaves had turned from green to pale gold and darkest amber , and now the new green leaves were being presented to the spring . 
The place he was going to lay some two and a half miles away across the island , and as the road was bad he was going alone . 
Emmeline had been passing a new thread through the beads of the necklace she sometimes wore . 
This necklace had a history . 
In the shallows not far away , Dick had found a bed of shell fish wading out at low tide , he had taken some of them out to examine . 
The first one he opened , so disgusting did its appearance seem to him , might have been the last , only that under the beard of the thing lay a pearl . 
It was about twice the size of a large pea , and so lustrous that even he could not but admire its beauty , though quite unconscious of its value . 
He flung the unopened oysters down , and took the thing to Emmeline . 
Next day , returning by chance to the same spot , he found the oysters he had cast down all dead and open in the sun . 
He examined them , and found another pearl embedded in one of them . 
Then he collected nearly a bushel of the oysters , and left them to die and open . 
The idea had occurred to him of making a necklace for his companion . 
She had one made of shells , he intended to make her one of pearls . 
It took a long time , but it was something to do . 
He pierced them with a big needle , and at the end of four months or so the thing was complete . 
Great pearls most of them were pure white , black , pink , some perfectly round , some tear shaped , some irregular . 
The thing was worth fifteen , or perhaps twenty thousand pounds , for he only used the biggest he could find , casting away the small ones as useless . 
Emmeline this morning had just finished restringing them on a double thread . 
She looked pale and not at all well and had been restless all night . 
As he went off , armed with his spear and fishing tackle , she waved her hand to him without getting up . 
He had no compass to guide him , and he needed none . 
He knew the woods by heart . 
The mysterious line beyond which scarcely an artu tree was to be found . 
The long strip of mammee apple a regular sheet of it a hundred yards broad , and reaching from the middle of the island right down to the lagoon . 
The clearings , some almost circular where the ferns grew knee deep . 
Then he came to the bad part . 
The vegetation here had burst into a riot . 
All sorts of great sappy stalks of unknown plants barred the way and tangled the foot and there were boggy places into which one sank horribly . 
All the noontides that had ever fallen upon the island seemed to have left some of their heat behind them here . 
The air was damp and close like the air of a laundry and the mournful and perpetual buzz of insects filled the silence without destroying it . 
This was the haunt of the jug orchid a veritable jug , lid and all . 
Raising the lid you would find the jug half filled with water . 
Sometimes in the tangle up above , between two trees , you would see a thing like a bird come to ruin . 
Orchids grew here as in a hothouse . 
All the trees the few there were had a spectral and miserable appearance . 
They were half starved by the voluptuous growth of the gigantic weeds . 
If one had much imagination one felt afraid in this place , for one felt not alone . 
At any moment it seemed that one might be touched on the elbow by a hand reaching out from the surrounding tangle . 
Even Dick felt this , unimaginative and fearless as he was . 
He would have rowed round in the dinghy , only that at low tide the shallows of the north of the island were a bar to the boat's passage . 
Of course he might have rowed all the way round by way of the strand and reef entrance , but that would have meant a circuit of six miles or more . 
When he came between the trees down to the lagoon edge it was about eleven o'clock in the morning , and the tide was nearly at the full . 
The lagoon just here was like a trough , and the reef was very near , scarcely a quarter of a mile from the shore . 
The water did not shelve , it went down sheer fifty fathoms or more , and one could fish from the bank just as from a pier head . 
He had brought some food with him , and he placed it under a tree whilst he prepared his line , which had a lump of coral for a sinker . 
He baited the hook , and whirling the sinker round in the air sent it flying out a hundred feet from shore . 
There was a baby cocoa nut tree growing just at the edge of the water . 
He fastened the end of his line round the narrow stem , in case of eventualities , and then , holding the line itself , he fished . 
He had promised Emmeline to return before sundown . 
That is to say , a creature with the enduring patience of a cat , tireless and heedless of time as an oyster . 
He came here for sport more than for fish . 
Large things were to be found in this part of the lagoon . 
The last time he had hooked a horror in the form of a cat fish at least in outward appearance it was likest to a Mississippi cat fish . 
Unlike the cat fish , it was coarse and useless as food , but it gave good sport . 
The tide was now going out , and it was at the going out of the tide that the best fishing was to be had . 
There was no wind , and the lagoon lay like a sheet of glass , with just a dimple here and there where the outgoing tide made a swirl in the water . 
As he fished he thought of Emmeline and the little house under the trees . 
Scarcely one could call it thinking . 
Pictures passed before his mind's eye pleasant and happy pictures , sunlit , moonlit , starlit . 
Three hours passed thus without a bite or symptom that the lagoon contained anything else but sea water , and disappointment but he did not grumble . 
Then he left the line tied to the tree and sat down to eat the food he had brought with him . 
The only course was to let it tug and drown itself . 
So he sat down and watched . 
After a few minutes the line slackened , and the little cocoa nut tree resumed its attitude of pensive meditation and repose . 
He pulled the line up there was nothing at the end of it but a hook . 
He did not grumble he baited the hook again , and flung it in , for it was quite likely that the ferocious thing in the water would bite again . 
Full of this idea and heedless of time he fished and waited . 
The sun was sinking into the west he did not heed it . 
He had quite forgotten that he had promised Emmeline to return before sunset it was nearly sunset now . 
He dropped the line , and turned with a start . 
There was no one visible . 
He ran amongst the trees calling out her name , but only echoes answered . 
Then he came back to the lagoon edge . 
He felt sure that what he had heard was only fancy , but it was nearly sunset , and more than time to be off . 
He pulled in his line , wrapped it up , took his fish spear and started . 
It was just in the middle of the bad place that dread came to him . 
At last he broke into the real wood , but far to the right of where he ought to have been . 
He felt like a beast escaped from a trap , and hurried along , led by the sound of the surf . 
When he reached the clear sward that led down to the lagoon the sun had just vanished beyond the sea line . 
A streak of red cloud floated like the feather of a flamingo in the western sky close to the sea , and twilight had already filled the world . 
He could see the house dimly , under the shadow of the trees , and he ran towards it , crossing the sward diagonally . 
Always before , when he had been away , the first thing to greet his eyes on his return had been the figure of Emmeline . 
Either at the lagoon edge or the house door he would find her waiting for him . 
She was not waiting for him to night . 
Dick would hunt for her amidst the trees , calling out her name and hallooing . 
He remembered this now , and started off along the borders of the wood , calling to her , and pausing to listen . 
He sat down before the door of the house , and , looking at him , you might have fancied him in the last stages of exhaustion . 
Profound grief and profound exhaustion act on the frame very much in the same way . 
He sat with his chin resting on his chest , his hands helpless . 
He could hear her voice , still as he heard it over at the other side of the island . 
She had been in danger and called to him , and he had been calmly fishing , unconscious of it all . 
He sat up , stared around him and beat the ground with the palms of his hands then he sprang to his feet and made for the dinghy . 
He rowed to the reef the action of a madman , for she could not possibly be there . 
There was no moon , the starlight both lit and veiled the world , and no sound but the majestic thunder of the waves . 
He returned to the shore the house was still deserted . 
A little bowl made from the shell of a cocoa nut stood on the grass near the doorway . 
He had last seen it in her hands , and he took it up and held it for a moment , pressing it tightly to his breast . 
Then he threw himself down before the doorway , and lay upon his face , with head resting upon his arms in the attitude of a person who is profoundly asleep . 
He must have searched through the woods again that night just as a somnambulist searches , for he found himself towards dawn in the valley before the idol . 
Then it was daybreak the world was full of light and colour . 
CHAPTER XIII THE NEWCOMER He could not move for a moment , then he sprang to his feet and ran towards her . 
She looked pale and dazed , and she held something in her arms something wrapped up in her scarf . 
As he pressed her to him , the something in the bundle struggled against his breast and emitted a squall just like the squall of a cat . 
He drew back , and Emmeline , tenderly moving her scarf a bit aside , exposed a wee face . 
It was brick red and wrinkled there were two bright eyes , and a tuft of dark hair over the forehead . 
Then the eyes closed , the face screwed itself up , and the thing sneezed twice . 
Where did you GET it ? he asked , absolutely lost in astonishment as she covered the face again gently with the scarf . 
I found it in the woods , replied Emmeline . 
Dumb with amazement , he helped her along to the house , and she sat down , resting her head against the bamboos of the wall . 
I felt so bad , she explained and then I went off to sit in the woods , and then I remembered nothing more , and when I woke up it was there . 
It's a baby ! said Dick . 
I know , replied Emmeline . 
Mrs James's baby , seen in the long ago , had risen up before their mind's eyes , a messenger from the past to explain what the new thing was . 
It has something funny tied on to it , she went on , as if she were referring to a parcel she had just received . 
Let's look , said Dick . 
No , she replied leave it alone . 
She sat rocking the thing gently , seeming oblivious to the whole world , and quite absorbed in it , as , indeed , was Dick . 
A physician would have shuddered , but , perhaps fortunately enough , there was no physician on the island . 
Only Nature , and she put everything to rights in her own time and way . 
When Dick had sat marvelling long enough , he set to and lit the fire . 
He had eaten nothing since the day before , and he was nearly as exhausted as the girl . 
Before they had finished , the creature in the bundle , as though it had smelt the food , began to scream . 
Emmeline drew the scarf aside . 
It looked hungry its mouth would now be pinched up and now wide open , its eyes opened and closed . 
The girl touched it on the lips with her finger , and it seized upon her fingertip and sucked it . 
She approached it to the baby's mouth . 
It tried to suck it , failed , blew bubbles at the sun and squalled . 
Wait a minute , said Dick . 
There were some green cocoa nuts he had gathered the day before close by . 
He took one , removed the green husk , and opened one of the eyes , making an opening also in the opposite side of the shell . 
The unfortunate infant sucked ravenously at the nut , filled its stomach with the young cocoa nut juice , vomited violently , and wailed . 
Emmeline in despair clasped it to her naked breast , wherefrom , in a moment , it was hanging like a leech . 
It knew more about babies than they did . 
CHAPTER XIV HANNAH At noon , in the shallows of the reef , under the burning sun , the water would be quite warm . 
They would carry the baby down here , and Emmeline would wash it with a bit of flannel . 
After a few days it scarcely ever screamed , even when she washed it . 
It would lie on her knees during the process , striking valiantly out with its arms and legs , staring straight up at the sky . 
Dick would sit by with his knees up to his chin , watching it all . 
He felt himself to be part proprietor in the thing as , indeed , he was . 
The mystery of the affair still hung over them both . 
A week ago they two had been alone , and suddenly from nowhere this new individual had appeared . 
It had hair on its head , tiny finger nails , and hands that would grasp you . 
It had a whole host of little ways of its own , and every day added to them . 
In a week the extreme ugliness of the newborn child had vanished . 
Its face , which had seemed carved in the imitation of a monkey's face from half a brick , became the face of a happy and healthy baby . 
It seemed to see things , and sometimes it would laugh and chuckle as though it had been told a good joke . 
Its black hair all came off and was supplanted by a sort of down . 
It would lie on its back and kick and crow , and double its fists up and try to swallow them alternately , and cross its feet and play with its toes . 
In fact , it was exactly like any of the thousand and one babies that are born into the world at every tick of the clock . 
What will we call it ? said Dick one day , as he sat watching his son and heir crawling about on the grass under the shade of the breadfruit leaves . 
Hannah , said Emmeline promptly . 
Koko took a vast interest in the new arrival . 
He would hop round it and peer at it with his head on one side and Hannah would crawl after the bird and try to grab it by the tail . 
Sometimes Emmeline would sit and brood over the child , a troubled expression on her face and a far away look in her eyes . 
The old vague fear of mischance had returned the dread of that viewless form her imagination half pictured behind the smile on the face of Nature . 
Her happiness was so great that she dreaded to lose it . 
There is nothing more wonderful than the birth of a man , and all that goes to bring it about . 
In thoughts vague and beyond expression in words , they linked this new occurrence with that old occurrence on the reef six years before . 
The vanishing and the coming of a man . 
Hannah , despite his unfortunate name , was certainly a most virile and engaging baby . 
It was a tooth just born . 
Emmeline , with a profound and natural wisdom , let him crawl about stark naked , dressed in ozone and sunlight . 
He knew Dick from Emmeline and when Emmeline had satisfied his material wants , he would hold out his arms to go to Dick if he were by . 
He had a passion for flowers , or anything bright . 
He would laugh and shout when taken on the lagoon in the dinghy , and make as if to jump into the water to get at the bright coloured corals below . 
One day they were out on the lagoon . 
Dick had been rowing he had ceased , and was letting the boat drift for a bit . 
Dick took the child on his knee , and from that moment his love for it was more than his love for Emmeline or anything else on earth . 
Yet her mind was of that order into which profound truths come by short cuts . 
Great knowledge may lurk in the human mind without the owner of the mind being aware . 
He or she acts in such or such a way , or thinks in such and such a manner from intuition in other words , as the outcome of the profoundest reasoning . 
We have become hypnotized by words and names . 
We think in words and names , not in ideas the commonplace has triumphed , the true intellect is half crushed . 
Storms had burst over the island before this . 
And what Emmeline remembered of them might be expressed by an instance . 
And one bird would be left and another taken , one tree destroyed and another left standing . 
The fury of the thing was less fearful than the blindness of it , and the indifference of it . 
One night , when the child was asleep , just after the last star was lit , Dick appeared at the doorway of the house . 
He had been down to the water's edge and had now returned . 
He beckoned Emmeline to follow him , and , putting down the child , she did so . 
Come here and look , said he . 
He led the way to the water and as they approached it Emmeline became aware that there was something strange about the lagoon . 
From a distance it looked pale and solid it might have been a great stretch of grey marble veined with black . 
Then , as she drew nearer , she saw that the dull grey appearance was a deception of the eye . 
The lagoon was alight and burning . 
The phosphoric fire was in its very heart and being every coral branch was a torch , every fish a passing lantern . 
The incoming tide moving the waters made the whole glittering floor of the lagoon move and shiver , and the tiny waves to lap the bank , leaving behind them glow worm traces . 
He knelt down and plunged his forearm into the water . 
The immersed part burned like a smouldering torch . 
Emmeline could see it as plainly as though it were lit by sunlight . 
Then he drew his arm out , and as far as the water had reached , it was covered by a glowing glove . 
Emmeline knelt down and dabbled her hands , and made herself a pair of phosphoric gloves , and cried out with pleasure , and laughed . 
It was all the pleasure of playing with fire without the danger of being burnt . 
Then Dick rubbed his face with the water till it glowed . 
Wait ! he cried and , running up to the house , he fetched out Hannah . 
He came running down with him to the water's edge , gave Emmeline the child , unmoored the boat , and started out from shore . 
Even the child on Emmeline's lap crowed and cried out at the strangeness of the sight . 
They landed on the reef and wandered over the flat . 
The sea was white and bright as snow , and the foam looked like a hedge of fire . 
As they stood gazing on this extraordinary sight , suddenly , almost as instantaneously as the switching off of an electric light , the phosphorescence of the sea flickered and vanished . 
CHAPTER XVI THE CYCLONE When they awoke next morning the day was dark . 
A solid roof of cloud , lead coloured and without a ripple on it , lay over the sky , almost to the horizon . 
There was not a breath of wind , and the birds flew wildly about as if disturbed by some unseen enemy in the wood . 
As Dick lit the fire to prepare the breakfast , Emmeline walked up and down , holding her baby to her breast she felt restless and uneasy . 
As the morning wore on the darkness increased a breeze rose up , and the leaves of the breadfruit trees pattered together with the sound of rain falling upon glass . 
A storm was coming , but there was something different in its approach to the approach of the storms they had already known . 
As the breeze increased a sound filled the air , coming from far away beyond the horizon . 
The sky that had been so leaden and peaceful and like a solid roof was now all in a hurry , flowing eastward like a great turbulent river in spate . 
Emmeline sat amidst the ferns on the floor cowed and dumb , holding the baby to her breast . 
Dick stood at the doorway . 
He was disturbed in mind , but he did not show it . 
The whole beautiful island world had now taken on the colour of ashes and the colour of lead . 
Beauty had utterly vanished , all seemed sadness and distress . 
It roared on the foliage above , which , bending leaf on leaf , made a slanting roof from which it rushed in a steady sheet like cascade . 
Dick had darted into the house , and was now sitting beside Emmeline , who was shivering and holding the child , which had awakened at the sound of the thunder . 
For an hour they sat , the rain ceasing and coming again , the thunder shaking earth and sea , and the wind passing overhead with a piercing , monotonous cry . 
Then all at once the wind dropped , the rain ceased , and a pale spectral light , like the light of dawn , fell before the doorway . 
It's over ! cried Dick , making to get up . 
Oh , listen ! said Emmeline , clinging to him , and holding the baby to his breast as if the touch of him would give it protection . 
She had divined that there was something approaching worse than a storm . 
Then , listening in the silence , away from the other side of the island , they heard a sound like the droning of a great top . 
It was the centre of the cyclone approaching . 
A cyclone is a circular storm a storm in the form of a ring . 
This ring of hurricane travels across the ocean with inconceivable speed and fury , yet its centre is a haven of peace . 
In a second the house was torn away , and they were clinging to the roots of the breadfruit , deaf , blinded , half lifeless . 
The terror and the prolonged shock of it reduced them from thinking beings to the level of frightened animals whose one instinct is preservation . 
The centre of the cyclone was passing over the island . 
Looking up , one saw a marvellous sight . 
The air was full of birds , butterflies , insects all hanging in the heart of the storm and travelling with it under its protection . 
There was something shocking in this . 
In a storm one is so beaten about by the wind that one has no time to think one is half stupefied . 
But in the dead centre of a cyclone one is in perfect peace . 
The trouble is all around , but it is not here . 
One has time to examine the thing like a tiger in a cage , listen to its voice and shudder at its ferocity . 
The girl , holding the baby to her breast , sat up gasping . 
The baby had come to no harm it had cried at first when the thunder broke , but now it seemed impassive , almost dazed . 
Dick stepped from under the tree and looked at the prodigy in the air . 
Bit by bit they began to recover something of their scattered property . 
The remains of the flannel had been taken by the cyclone and wrapped round and round a slender cocoa nut tree , till the trunk looked like a gaily bandaged leg . 
As for the lug sail belonging to the dinghy , it was never seen again . 
There is humour sometimes in a cyclone , if you can only appreciate it no other form of air disturbance produces such quaint effects . 
Beside the great main whirlpool of wind , there are subsidiary whirlpools , each actuated by its own special imp . 
But the destruction amidst the trees was pitiful . 
Looking at the woods as a mass , one noticed gaps here and there , but what had really happened could not be seen till one was amongst the trees . 
Great , beautiful cocoa nut palms , not dead , but just dying , lay crushed and broken as if trampled upon by some enormous foot . 
You would come across half a dozen lianas twisted into one great cable . 
Powerful enough to rip a ship open , root up a tree , half ruin a city . 
Delicate enough to tear a butterfly wing from wing that is a cyclone . 
Mischance had come , and spared them and the baby . 
The blue had spoken , but had not called them . 
The cyclone had indeed treated them almost , one might say , amiably . 
It had taken the house but that was a small matter , for it had left them nearly all their small possessions . 
If anything , the cyclone had been almost too kind to them had let them pay off too little of that mysterious debt they owed to the gods . 
CHAPTER XVIII A FALLEN IDOL The next day Dick began to rebuild the house . 
He had fetched the stay sail from the reef and rigged up a temporary tent . 
It was a great business cutting the canes and dragging them out in the open . 
Emmeline helped whilst Hannah , seated on the grass , played with the bird that had vanished during the storm , but reappeared the evening after . 
He will feel a desire to press it to his heart , if he has such a thing . 
Hannah would press Koko to his little brown stomach , as if in artless admission of where his heart lay . 
He was an extraordinarily bright and intelligent child . 
With his eyes , that were as bright as Koko's , and full of all sorts of mischief with his hands and feet and the movements of his body . 
He was just now passing over the frontier into toyland . 
In civilisation he would no doubt have been the possessor of an india rubber dog or a woolly lamb , but there were no toys here at all . 
He had brought it back now more as a curiosity than anything else , and they had kept it on the shelf in the house . 
But he would play with flowers or bright shells , or bits of coral , making vague patterns with them on the sward . 
All the toy lambs in the world would not have pleased him better than those things , the toys of the Troglodyte children the children of the Stone Age . 
They were going to the valley of the idol . 
Love had come to her under its shade and under its shade the spirit of the child had entered into her from where , who knows ? But certainly through heaven . 
Great blocks of stone lay around him there had evidently been a landslip , a catastrophe preparing for ages , and determined , perhaps , by the torrential rain of the cyclone . 
CHAPTER XIX THE EXPEDITION Next morning the light of day filtering through the trees awakened Emmeline in the tent which they had improvised whilst the house was building . 
On this side it was different . 
The sky would be dark and full of stars , and the woods , great spaces of velvety shadow . 
Then through the leaves of the artu would come a sigh , and the leaves of the breadfruit would patter , and the sound of the reef become faint . 
In this indirect approach of dawn there was something ineffably mysterious . 
One could see , but the things seen were indecisive and vague , just as they are in the gloaming of an English summer's day . 
Scarcely had Emmeline arisen when Dick woke also , and they went out on to the sward , and then down to the water's edge . 
Dick went in for a swim , and the girl , holding the baby , stood on the bank watching him . 
Always after a great storm the weather of the island would become more bracing and exhilarating , and this morning the air seemed filled with the spirit of spring . 
Emmeline felt it , and as she watched the swimmer disporting in the water , she laughed , and held the child up to watch him . 
Dick came ashore , and then ran about to dry himself in the wind . 
His anxiety about them was not to be wondered at . 
The island was his larder , and the bananas were a most valuable article of food . 
He had all the feelings of a careful housekeeper about them , and he could not rest till he had seen for himself the extent of damage , if damage there was any . 
He examined the boat , and then they all went back to breakfast . 
Living their lives , they had to use forethought . 
Dick had stepped into the boat , and was on the point of unmooring her , and pushing her off , when Emmeline stopped him . 
Dick ! Yes ? I will go with you . 
You ! said he in astonishment . 
Yes , I'm not afraid any more . 
It was a fact since the coming of the child she had lost that dread of the other side of the island or almost lost it . 
The result was a twilight sad , but beautiful , and unpeopled with forms of fear . 
Years ago she had seen a mysterious door close and shut a human being out for ever from the world . 
The sight had filled her with dread unimaginable , for she had no words for the thing , no religion or philosophy to explain it away or gloss it over . 
Life had vanished into the void , but life had come from there . 
There was life in the void , and it was no longer terrible . 
Emmeline , with the child in her arms , stepped into the little boat and took her seat in the stern , whilst Dick pushed off . 
Scarcely had he put out the sculls than a new passenger arrived . 
He would often accompany them to the reef , though , strangely enough , he would never go there alone of his own accord . 
The berries that will cause a man to sleep , should he eat of them to sleep and dream , and never wake up again . 
Throw them away ! cried Dick , who remembered . 
I will in a minute , she replied . 
She was holding them up before the child , who was laughing and trying to grasp them . 
Then she forgot them , and dropped them in the bottom of the boat , for something had struck the keel with a thud , and the water was boiling all round . 
There was a savage fight going on below . 
In the breeding season great battles would take place sometimes in the lagoon , for fish have their jealousies just like men love affairs , friendships . 
The two great forms could be dimly perceived , one in pursuit of the other , and they terrified Emmeline , who implored Dick to row on . 
They slipped by the pleasant shores that Emmeline had never seen before , having been sound asleep when they came past them those years ago . 
When they came to the place where Dick had hooked the albicore , he hung on his oars and told her about it . 
It was the first time she had heard of it a fact which shows into what a state of savagery he had been lapsing . 
Contempt for women is the first law of savagery , and perhaps the last law of some old and profound philosophy . 
She listened , and when it came to the incident of the shark , she shuddered . 
I wish I had a hook big enough to catch him with , said he , staring into the water as if in search of his enemy . 
Don't think of him , Dick , said Emmeline , holding the child more tightly to her heart . 
He resumed the sculls , but you could have seen from his face that he was recounting to himself the incident . 
When they had rounded the last promontory , and the strand and the break in the reef opened before them , Emmeline caught her breath . 
She was contrasting the real things with the recollection of them when seen by a child . 
The black speck had vanished from the reef the storm had swept it utterly away . 
Hannah asleep was even a pleasanter picture than when awake . 
He looked like a little brown Cupid without wings , bow or arrow . 
He had all the grace of a curled up feather . 
Sleep was always in pursuit of him , and would catch him up at the most unexpected moments when he was at play , or indeed at any time . 
The flight of the mind in reverie is not in a direct line . 
There was sadness in the contemplation of them , but pleasure too . 
She felt at peace with the world . 
All trouble seemed far behind her . 
It was as if the great storm that had left them unharmed had been an ambassador from the powers above to assure her of their forbearance , protection , and love . 
All at once she noticed that between the boat's bow and the sand there lay a broad , blue , sparkling line . 
CHAPTER XX THE KEEPER OF THE LAGOON The woods here had been less affected by the cyclone than those upon the other side of the island , but there had been destruction enough . 
To reach the place he wanted , Dick had to climb over felled trees and fight his way through a tangle of vines that had once hung overhead . 
He cut two bunches , and with one across his shoulder came back down through the trees . 
He saw a scull floating on the water half way between the boat and the shore , which she had no doubt lost in an attempt to paddle the boat back . 
He remembered that the tide was going out . 
He flung his load aside , and ran down the beach in a moment he was in the water . 
Emmeline , standing up in the boat , watched him . 
When she found herself adrift , she had made an effort to row back , and in her hurry shipping the sculls she had lost one . 
With a single scull she was quite helpless , as she had not the art of sculling a boat from the stern . 
She saw Dick coming out of the wood with the load on his shoulder , and she called to him . 
At first he did not seem to hear , then she saw him look up , cast the bananas away , and come running down the sand to the water's edge . 
She watched him swimming , she saw him seize the scull , and her heart gave a great leap of joy . 
Towing the scull and swimming with one arm , he rapidly approached the boat . 
Forty years ago he had floated adrift on the sea in the form and likeness of a small shabby pine cone , a prey to anything that might find him . 
Out of a billion like him born in the same year , he and a few others only had survived . 
For thirty years he had kept the lagoon to himself , as a ferocious tiger keeps a jungle . 
He had known the palm tree on the reef when it was a seedling , and he had known the reef even before the palm tree was there . 
The things he had devoured , flung one upon another , would have made a mountain yet he was as clear of enmity as a sword , as cruel and as soulless . 
He was the spirit of the lagoon . 
Emmeline screamed , and pointed to the thing behind the swimmer . 
He turned , saw it , dropped the oar and made for the boat . 
She could not throw a stone straight , yet the scull went like an arrow to the mark , balking the pursuer and saving the pursued . 
In a moment more his leg was over the gunwale , and he was saved . 
But the scull was lost . 
The bird perched on the gunwale seemed to divine their trouble , for he rose in the air , made a circle , and resumed his perch with all his feathers ruffled . 
Dick stood in despair , helpless , his hands clasping his head . 
The shore was drawing away before him , the surf loudening behind him , yet he could do nothing . 
The island was being taken away from them by the great hand of the sea . 
Dick flung himself down beside Emmeline , who was seated in the bottom of the boat holding the child to her breast . 
The bird , seeing the land retreat , and wise in its instinct . 
It circled thrice round the drifting boat , and then , like a beautiful but faithless spirit , passed away to the shore . 
CHAPTER XXII TOGETHER The island had sunk slowly from sight at sundown it was just a trace , a stain on the south western horizon . 
It was before the new moon , and the little boat lay drifting . 
It drifted from the light of sunset into a world of vague violet twilight , and now it lay drifting under the stars . 
The girl , clasping the baby to her breast , leaned against her companion's shoulder neither of them spoke . 
All the wonders in their short existence had culminated in this final wonder , this passing away together from the world of Time . 
This strange voyage they had embarked on to where ? Now that the first terror was over they felt neither sorrow nor fear . 
Come what might , nothing could divide them even should they sleep and never wake up , they would sleep together . 
Clasped in Emmeline's hand was the last and most mysterious gift of the mysterious world they had known the branch of crimson berries . 
BOOK III CHAPTER I MAD LESTRANGE They knew him upon the Pacific slope as Mad Lestrange . 
He was not mad , but he was a man with a fixed idea . 
He was pursued by a vision the vision of two children and an old sailor adrift in a little boat upon a wide blue sea . 
When the Arago , bound for Papetee , picked up the boats of the Northumberland , only the people in the long boat were alive . 
Le Farge , the captain , was mad , and he never recovered his reason . 
Lestrange was utterly shattered the awful experience in the boats and the loss of the children had left him a seemingly helpless wreck . 
The scowbankers , like all their class , had fared better , and in a few days were about the ship and sitting in the sun . 
Four days after the rescue the Arago spoke the Newcastle , bound for San Francisco , and transshipped the shipwrecked men . 
In the general hospital of San Francisco , as the clouds cleared from his mind , they unveiled the picture of the children and the little boat . 
Memory cannot produce a picture that Imagination has not retouched and her pictures , even the ones least touched by Imagination , are no mere photographs , but the world of an artist . 
She is a painter , but she is also a poet . 
A sea most beautiful to look at , yet most terrible , bearing as it did the recollections of thirst . 
He had been dying , when , raising himself on his elbow , so to say , he looked at this picture . 
It recalled him to life . 
His willpower asserted itself , and he refused to die . 
The will of a man has , if it is strong enough , the power to reject death . 
The disease that was killing him ceased its ravages , or rather was slain in its turn by the increased vitality against which it had to strive . 
A time reckoning from the Horn told little , for there was no record of the log . 
All that could be said was that the disaster had occurred somewhere south of the line . 
Quite recovered , and playing with a ball of coloured worsted . 
There remained the log of the Arago in it would be found the latitude and longitude of the boats she had picked up . 
The Arago , due at Papetee , became overdue . 
Lestrange watched the overdue lists from day to day , from week to week , from month to month , uselessly , for the Arago never was heard of again . 
One could not affirm even that she was wrecked she was simply one of the ships that never come back from the sea . 
CHAPTER II THE SECRET OF THE AZURE To lose a child he loves is undoubtedly the greatest catastrophe that can happen to a man . 
I do not refer to its death . 
A child wanders into the street , or is left by its nurse for a moment , and vanishes . 
At first the thing is not realised . 
But the police know nothing of the matter , or the neighbours , and the hours pass . 
You cannot remain at home for restlessness you go out , only to return hurriedly for news . 
If someone were to bring you the dead body of the child , you might weep , but you would bless him , for it is the uncertainty that kills . 
You go mad , or go on living . 
Years pass by , and you are an old man . 
You say to yourself He would have been twenty years of age to day . 
There is not in the old ferocious penal code of our forefathers a punishment adequate to the case of the man or woman who steals a child . 
Lestrange was a wealthy man , and one hope remained to him , that the children might have been rescued by some passing ship . 
The years passed without anything definite coming in answer to all these advertisements . 
A coarser nature would , though feeling , perhaps , as acutely the grief , have given up in despair the search . 
If you wish to feel the hopelessness of this unguided search , do not look at a map of the Pacific , but go there . 
Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of square leagues of sea , thousands of islands , reefs , atolls . 
In that eighteen months the Pacific explained itself to him in part , explained its vastness , its secrecy and inviolability . 
The schooner lifted veil upon veil of distance , and veil upon veil lay beyond . 
He would often lean over the bulwark rail and watch the swell slip by , as if questioning the water . 
When he got back to San Francisco he called upon his agent , Wannamaker of Kearney Street , but there was still no news . 
CHAPTER III CAPTAIN FOUNTAIN He had a suite of rooms at the Palace Hotel , and he lived the life of any other rich man who is not addicted to pleasure . 
Once at a dinner party he rose and left the room , and did not return . 
Trifles , but sufficient to establish a reputation of a sort . 
He went to the instrument . 
Are you there ? came a high American voice . 
Lestrange right come down and see me Wannamaker I have news for you . 
Lestrange held the receiver for a moment , then he put it back in the rest . 
News ! What a world lies in that word . 
I In Kearney Street he stood before the door of Wannamaker's office collecting himself and watching the crowd drifting by , then he entered and went up the stairs . 
He pushed open a swing door and entered a great room . 
What is it ? said Lestrange . 
Only this , said the other , taking up a slip of paper with a name and address on it . 
Simon J. Fountain , of Rathray Street , West that's down near the wharves says he has seen your ad . 
in an old number of a paper , and he thinks he can tell you something . 
He did not specify the nature of the intelligence , but it might be worth finding out . 
I will go there , said Lestrange . 
Do you know Rathray Street ? No. Wannamaker went out and called a boy and gave him some directions then Lestrange and the boy started . 
Lestrange left the office without saying Thank you , or taking leave in any way of the advertising agent who did not feel in the least affronted , for he knew his customer . 
Rathray Street is , or was before the earthquake , a street of small clean houses . 
No. was almost exactly like its fellows , . 
neither better nor worse and the door was opened by a neat , prim woman , small , and of middle age . 
Commonplace she was , no doubt , but not commonplace to Lestrange . 
Is Mr Fountain in ? he asked . 
I have come about the advertisement . 
Oh , have you , sir ? she replied , making way for him to enter , and showing him into a little sitting room on the left of the passage . 
Thanks , said Lestrange I can wait . 
It was a depressing little room it was so clean , and looked as though it were never used . 
Lestrange , as he sat waiting , could hear movements from the next room probably the invalid's , which they were preparing for his reception . 
The distant sounds of the derricks and winches came muted through the tightly shut window that looked as though it never had been opened . 
A square of sunlight lit the upper part of the cheap lace curtain on the right of the window , and repeated its pattern vaguely on the lower part of the wall opposite . 
Then a bluebottle fly awoke suddenly into life and began to buzz and drum against the window pane , and Lestrange wished that they would come . 
A man of his temperament must necessarily , even under the happiest circumstances , suffer in going through the world the fine fibre always suffers when brought into contact with the coarse . 
These people were as kindly disposed as anyone else . 
The room was neat and clean , and had that indescribable appearance which marks the bedroom of the invalid . 
Without moving his body , he turned his head slowly and looked at the newcomer . 
This slow movement was not from weakness or disease , it was the slow , emotionless nature of the man speaking . 
This is the gentleman , Silas , said the woman , speaking over Lestrange's shoulder . 
Then she withdrew and closed the door . 
Take a chair , sir , said the sea captain , flapping one of his hands on the counterpane as if in wearied protest against his own helplessness . 
I haven't the pleasure of your name , but the missus tells me you're come about the advertisement I lit on yester even . 
He took a paper , folded small , that lay beside him , and held it out to his visitor . 
It was a Sidney Bulletin three years old . 
Yes , said Lestrange , looking at the paper that is my advertisement . 
Well , it's strange very strange , said Captain Fountain , that I should have lit on it only yesterday . 
I've had it all three years in my chest , the way old papers get lying at the bottom with odds and ends . 
I've been whaler man and boy forty year , and my last ship was the Sea Horse . 
What was it he found ? Missus ! roared the captain in a voice that shook the walls of the room . 
The door opened , and the woman appeared . 
Fetch me my keys out of my trousers pocket . 
The trousers were hanging up on the back of the door , as if only waiting to be put on . 
The woman fetched the keys , and he fumbled over them and found one . 
He handed it to her , and pointed to the drawer of a bureau opposite the bed . 
She knew evidently what was wanted , for she opened the drawer and produced a box , which she handed to him . 
It was a small cardboard box tied round with a bit of string . 
He undid the string , and disclosed a child's tea service a teapot , cream jug , six little plates all painted with a pansy . 
It was the box which Emmeline had always been losing lost again . 
Lestrange buried his face in his hands . 
Emmeline had shown them to him in a burst of confidence . 
Out of all that vast ocean he had searched unavailingly they had come to him like a message , and the awe and mystery of it bowed him down and crushed him . 
The captain had placed the things on the newspaper spread out by his side , and he was unrolling the little spoons from their tissue paper covering . 
He counted them as if entering up the tale of some trust , and placed them on the newspaper . 
When did you find them ? asked Lestrange , speaking with his face still covered . 
One of my men brought it aboard , found it in a shanty built of sugarcanes which the men bust up for devilment . 
Good God ! said Lestrange . 
Was there no one there nothing but this box ? Not a sight or sound , so the men said just the shanty , abandoned seemingly . 
I had no time to land and hunt for castaways , I was after whales . 
How big is the island ? Oh , a fairish middle sized island no natives . 
I've heard tell it's tabu why , the Lord only knows some crank of the Kanakas I s'pose . 
Anyhow , there's the findings you recognise them ? I do . 
Strange ! said the other . 
Of course , continued the captain , they might have been on the island hid away som'ere , there's no saying only appearances are against it . 
Of course they might be there now unbeknownst to you or me . 
They are there now , answered Lestrange , who was sitting up and looking at the playthings as though he read in them some hidden message . 
Have you the position of the island ? I have . 
Missus , hand me my private log . 
She took a bulky , greasy , black note book from the bureau , and handed it to him . 
He opened it , thumbed the pages , and then read out the latitude and longitude . 
I entered it on the day of finding here's the entry . 
Adams brought aboard child's toy box out of deserted shanty , which men pulled down traded it to me for a caulker of rum . 
The cruise lasted three years and eight months after that we'd only been out three when it happened . 
I forgot all about it three years scrubbing round the world after whales doesn't brighten a man's memory . 
Right round we went , and paid off at Nantucket . 
Then , after a fortni't on shore and a month repairin' , the old Sea Horse was off again , I with her . 
It was at Honolulu this dropsy took me , and back I come here , home . 
There's not much to it , but , seein' your advertisement , I thought I might answer it . 
Lestrange took Fountain's hand and shook it . 
You see the reward I offered ? he said . 
I have not my cheque book with me , but you shall have the cheque in an hour from now . 
My God ! He buried his face in his hands again . 
Ay , said the captain , wrapping up the little spoons in a meditative manner perhaps that will be best . 
He felt certain in his own mind that the search would be fruitless , but he did not say so . 
Missus ! The woman answered the call . 
Lestrange felt like a person in a dream , and these people who were interesting themselves in his affairs seemed to him beneficent beyond the nature of human beings . 
Is Captain Stannistreet home , think you ? I don't know , replied the woman but I can go see . 
He lives only a few doors down , said Fountain , and he's the man for you . 
Best schooner captain ever sailed out of 'Frisco . 
The Raratonga is the name of the boat I have in my mind best boat that ever wore copper . 
Stannistreet is captain of her , owners are M'Vitie . 
She's been missionary , and she's been pigs copra was her last cargo , and she's nearly discharged it . 
Oh , M'Vitie would hire her out to Satan at a price you needn't be afraid of their boggling at it if you can raise the dollars . 
She's had a new suit of sails only the beginning of the year . 
Oh , she'll fix you up to a T , and you take the word of S. Fountain for that . 
He was a young man of not more than thirty , alert , quick of eye , and pleasant of face . 
Fountain introduced him to Lestrange , who had taken a fancy to him at first sight . 
He rose , bid good day to his friend Fountain , and Lestrange followed him , carrying the brown paper box in his hand . 
O'Sullivan's Wharf was not far away . 
That's the boat , said Stannistreet cargo nearly all out . 
How does she strike your fancy ? I'll take her , said Lestrange , cost what it will . 
There is no mode of travel to be compared to your sailing ship . 
For the first few days they made good way south then the wind became baffling and headed them off . 
These baffling winds blew upon the smouldering anxiety in his breast , as wind blows upon embers , causing them to glow . 
It took them along five hundred miles , silently and with the speed of a dream . 
The ocean and the air stood still . 
Two days , never to be recovered , passed , and still the calm continued . 
On the morning of the third day it breezed up from the nor' nor'west , and they continued their course , a cloud of . 
canvas , every sail drawing , and the music of the ripple under the forefoot . 
Captain Stannistreet was a genius in his profession he could get more speed out of a schooner than any other man afloat , and carry more canvas without losing a stick . 
He was also , fortunately for Lestrange , a man of refinement and education , and what was better still , understanding . 
You don't believe in visions and dreams ? How do you know that ? replied the other . 
Oh , I only put it as a question most people say they don't . 
Yes , but most people do . 
I do , said Lestrange . 
He was silent for a moment . 
You know my trouble so well that I won't bother you going over it , but there has come over me of late a feeling it is like a waking dream . 
Yes ? I can't quite explain , for it is as if I saw something which my intelligence could not comprehend , or make an image of . 
I think I know what you mean . 
I don't think you do . 
This is something quite strange . 
Well , I have never felt this sensation before it comes on only at times . 
I see , as you might imagine , a young baby sees , and things are before me that I do not comprehend . 
It is not through my bodily eyes that this sensation comes , but through some window of the mind , from before which a curtain has been drawn . 
That's strange , said Stannistreet , who did not like the conversation over much , being simply a schooner captain and a plain man , though intelligent enough and sympathetic . 
This something tells me , went on Lestrange , that there is danger threatening the He ceased , paused a minute , and then , to Stannistreet's relief , went on . 
If I talk like that you will think I am not right in my head let us pass the subject by , let us forget dreams and omens and come to realities . 
No , replied Stannistreet , he only spoke of the beach . 
Well , suppose there were natives at the other side of the island who had taken these children . 
If so , they would grow up with the natives . 
Most of the islands are civilised now . 
Well ? Well , they would be well treated . 
And brought up as savages ? I suppose so . 
How so ? What does a man want to be but happy ? Yes . 
Well , who is happier than a naked savage in a warm climate ? Oh , he's happy enough , and he's not always holding a corroboree . 
He's a good deal of a gentleman he has perfect health he lives the life a man was born to live face to face with Nature . 
Suppose they were like that , would it not be a cruelty to bring them to what we call civilisation ? I think it would , said Stannistreet . 
Lestrange said nothing , but continued pacing the deck , his head bowed and his hands behind his back . 
One evening at sunset , Stannistreet said We're two hundred and forty miles from the island , reckoning from to day's reckoning at noon . 
We're going all ten knots even with this breeze we ought to fetch the place this time to morrow . 
Before that if it freshens . 
I am greatly disturbed , said Lestrange . 
The breeze was not quite so fresh next morning , but it had been blowing fairly all the night , and the Raratonga had made good way . 
About eleven it began to fail . 
It became the lightest sailing breeze , just sufficient to keep the sails drawing , and the wake rippling and swirling behind . 
Suddenly Stannistreet , who had been standing talking to Lestrange , climbed a few feet up the mizzen ratlins , and shaded his eyes . 
What is it ? asked Lestrange . 
A boat , he replied . 
Hand me that glass you will find in the sling there . 
He levelled the glass , and looked for a long time without speaking . 
It's a boat adrift a small boat , nothing in her . 
Stay ! I see something white , can't make it out . 
Hi there ! to the fellow at the wheel . 
Keep her a point more to starboard . 
He got on to the deck . 
We're going dead on for her . 
Is there any one in her ? asked Lestrange . 
Can't quite make out , but I'll lower the whale boat and fetch her alongside . 
He gave orders for the whale boat to be slung out and manned . 
As they approached nearer , it was evident that the drifting boat , which looked like a ship's dinghy , contained something , but what , could not be made out . 
When he had approached near enough , Stannistreet put the helm down and brought the schooner to , with her sails all shivering . 
He took his place in the bow of the whale boat and Lestrange in the stern . 
The boat was lowered , the falls cast off , and the oars bent to the water . 
The little dinghy made a mournful picture as she floated , looking scarcely bigger than a walnut shell . 
In thirty strokes the whale boat's nose was touching her quarter . 
In the bottom of the dinghy lay a girl , naked all but for a strip of coloured striped material . 
They were natives , evidently , wrecked or lost by some mischance from some inter island schooner . 
Their breasts rose and fell gently , and clasped in the girl's hand was a branch of some tree , and on the branch a single withered berry . 
Are they dead ? asked Lestrange , who divined that there were people in the boat , and who was standing up in the stern of the whale boat trying to see . 
No , said Stannistreet they are asleep . 
