The Black Arrow by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Black Arrow Critic on the Hearth No one but myself knows what I have suffered , nor what my books have gained , by your unsleeping watchfulness and admirable pertinacity . 
That others may display more constancy is still my hope . 
in rivalry with a particular author I think I should do well to name him , Mr. Alfred R. Phillips . 
It was not without its reward at the time . 
Those who read volumes and those who read story papers belong to different worlds . 
The verdict on TREASURE ISLAND was reversed in the other court I wonder , will it be the same with its successor ? R. L. S. SARANAC LAKE , April , . 
Tunstall hamlet at that period , in the reign of old King Henry VI . 
, wore much the same appearance as it wears to day . 
A score or so of houses , heavily framed with oak , stood scattered in a long green valley ascending from the river . 
Half way up the village , the church stood among yews . 
On every side the slopes were crowned and the view bounded by the green elms and greening oak trees of the forest . 
He , at the least , would know , and they hailed him and begged him to explain . 
The express , it appeared , had brought great news . 
Sir Oliver would come shortly himself , and Bennet Hatch was arming at that moment , for he it was who should lead the party . 
It is the ruin of this kind land , a woman said . 
If the barons live at war , ploughfolk must eat roots . 
Nay , said Dick , every man that follows shall have sixpence a day , and archers twelve . 
No natural lord of mine , said the man in the smock . 
I followed the Walsinghams so we all did down Brierly way , till two years ago , come Candlemas . 
Ye speak with an ill tongue , friend , answered Dick , to miscall your good master and my lord the king in the same libel . 
But King Harry praised be the saints ! has come again into his right mind , and will have all things peaceably ordained . 
And as for Sir Daniel , y' are very brave behind his back . 
But I will be no tale bearer and let that suffice . 
I say no harm of you , Master Richard , returned the peasant . 
Y' are a lad but when ye come to a man's inches , ye will find ye have an empty pocket . 
I say no more the saints help Sir Daniel's neighbours , and the Blessed Maid protect his wards ! Clipsby , said Richard , you speak what I cannot hear with honour . 
Sir Daniel is my good master , and my guardian . 
Come , now , will ye read me a riddle ? returned Clipsby . 
Ay , returned Clipsby , you , nor no man . 
For , indeed , he is one that goes to bed Lancaster and gets up York . 
He was a great man in these parts Sir Daniel's right hand in peace and war , and at that time , by his master's interest , bailiff of the hundred . 
Clipsby , he shouted , off to the Moat House , and send all other laggards the same gate . 
Bowyer will give you jack and salet . 
We must ride before curfew . 
Look to it he that is last at the lych gate Sir Daniel shall reward . 
Look to it right well ! I know you for a man of naught . 
Nance , he added , to one of the women , is old Appleyard up town ? I'll warrant you , replied the woman . 
In his field , for sure . 
So the group dispersed , and while Clipsby walked leisurely over the bridge , Bennet and young Shelton rode up the road together , through the village and past the church . 
Ye will see the old shrew , said Bennet . 
He will waste more time grumbling and prating of Harry the Fift than would serve a man to shoe a horse . 
Nick Appleyard , said Hatch , Sir Oliver commends him to you , and bids that ye shall come within this hour to the Moat House , there to take command . 
The old fellow looked up . 
Save you , my masters ! he said , grinning . 
And where goeth Master Hatch ? Master Hatch is off to Kettley , with every man that we can horse , returned Bennet . 
There is a fight toward , it seems , and my lord stays a reinforcement . 
Ay , verily , returned Appleyard . 
And what will ye leave me to garrison withal ? I leave you six good men , and Sir Oliver to boot , answered Hatch . 
It'll not hold the place , said Appleyard the number sufficeth not . 
It would take two score to make it good . 
Why , it's for that we came to you , old shrew ! replied the other . 
There is not a man of you can back a horse or hold a bill and as for archery St . 
Draw a good bow ! cried Appleyard . 
Yes ! But who'll shoot me a good shoot ? It's there the eye comes in , and the head between your shoulders . 
Now , what might you call a long shoot , Bennet Hatch ? Well , said Bennet , looking about him , it would be a long shoot from here into the forest . 
Why , what are you looking at ? asked Bennet , with a chuckle . 
Do , you see Harry the Fift ? The veteran continued looking up the hill in silence . 
The sun shone broadly over the shelving meadows a few white sheep wandered browsing all was still but the distant jangle of the bell . 
What is it , Appleyard ? asked Dick . 
Why , the birds , said Appleyard . 
What of the birds ? said Bennet . 
Ay ! returned Appleyard , y' are a wise man to go to war , Master Bennet . 
Birds are a good sentry in forest places they be the first line of battle . 
My surcoat to a leather belt , it would be you ! cried the old archer . 
Ye burned Grimstone , Bennet they'll ne'er forgive you that , my master . 
And as for me , I'll soon be in a good place , God grant , and out of bow shoot ay , and cannon shoot of all their malices . 
I am an old man , and draw fast to homeward , where the bed is ready . 
Y' are the shrewishest old dolt in Tunstall Forest , returned Hatch , visibly ruffled by these threats . 
Get ye to your arms before Sir Oliver come , and leave prating for one good while . 
An ye had talked so much with Harry the Fift , his ears would ha' been richer than his pocket . 
Hatch , with a broken cry , leapt into the air then , stooping double , he ran for the cover of the house . 
And in the meanwhile Dick Shelton had dropped behind a lilac , and had his crossbow bent and shouldered , covering the point of the forest . 
The sheep were patiently browsing the birds had settled . 
D'ye see aught ? cried Hatch . 
Not a twig stirs , said Dick . 
I think shame to leave him lying , said Bennet , coming forward once more with hesitating steps and a very pale countenance . 
Keep a good eye on the wood , Master Shelton keep a clear eye on the wood . 
The saints assoil us ! here was a good shoot ! Bennet raised the old archer on his knee . 
He was not yet dead his face worked , and his eyes shut and opened like machinery , and he had a most horrible , ugly look of one in pain . 
Can ye hear , old Nick ? asked Hatch . 
Have ye a last wish before ye wend , old brother ? Pluck out the shaft , and let me pass , a' Mary's name ! gasped Appleyard . 
I be done with Old England . 
Pluck it out ! Master Dick , said Bennet , come hither , and pull me a good pull upon the arrow . 
He would fain pass , the poor sinner . 
Dick laid down his cross bow , and pulling hard upon the arrow , drew it forth . 
A gush of blood followed the old archer scrambled half upon his feet , called once upon the name of God , and then fell dead . 
Hatch , upon his knees among the cabbages , prayed fervently for the welfare of the passing spirit . 
When he had done , he got to his feet again , drew off one of his mailed gauntlets , and wiped his pale face , which was all wet with terror . 
Ay , he said , it'll be my turn next . 
Who hath done this , Bennet ? Richard asked , still holding the arrow in his hand . 
Nay , the saints know , said Hatch . 
Sir Daniel driveth over hard . 
This is a strange shaft , said the lad , looking at the arrow in his hand . 
Ay , by my faith ! cried Bennet . 
Black , and black feathered . 
Here is an ill favoured shaft , by my sooth ! for black , they say , bodes burial . 
And here be words written . 
What read ye ? 'APPULYAIRD FRO JON AMEND ALL , read Shelton . 
What should this betoken ? Nay , I like it not , returned the retainer , shaking his head . 
This will be a rare shog to poor Sir Oliver he will turn paper colour he will pray like a windmill . 
They took up the old archer , and carried him between them into his house , where he had dwelt alone . 
And there they laid him on the floor , out of regard for the mattress , and sought , as best they might , to straighten and compose his limbs . 
Appleyard's house was clean and bare . 
Hatch began to look about him curiously . 
Nick had money , he said . 
He may have had three score pounds put by . 
I would I could light upon't ! When ye lose an old friend , Master Richard , the best consolation is to heir him . 
See , now , this chest . 
I would go a mighty wager there is a bushel of gold therein . 
He had a strong hand to get , and a hard hand to keep withal , had Appleyard the archer . 
Come , Hatch , said Dick , respect his stone blind eyes . 
Appleyard the newcomer was saying , as he entered but he stopped dead . 
Ave Maria ! he cried . 
Saints be our shield ! What cheer is this ? Cold cheer with Appleyard , sir parson , answered Hatch , with perfect cheerfulness . 
Shot at his own door , and alighteth even now at purgatory gates . 
Ay ! there , if tales be true , he shall lack neither coal nor candle . 
Sir Oliver groped his way to a joint stool , and sat down upon it , sick and white . 
This is a judgment ! O , a great stroke ! he sobbed , and rattled off a leash of prayers . 
Hatch meanwhile reverently doffed his salet and knelt down . 
Ay , Bennet , said the priest , somewhat recovering , and what may this be ? What enemy hath done this ? Here , Sir Oliver , is the arrow . 
See , it is written upon with words , said Dick . 
Nay , cried the priest , this is a foul hearing ! John Amend All ! A right Lollardy word . 
And black of hue , as for an omen ! Sirs , this knave arrow likes me not . 
But it importeth rather to take counsel . 
Who should this be ? Bethink you , Bennet . 
Of so many black ill willers , which should he be that doth so hardily outface us ? Simnel ? I do much question it . 
The Walsinghams ? Nay , they are not yet so broken they still think to have the law over us , when times change . 
There was Simon Malmesbury , too . 
How think ye , Bennet ? What think ye , sir , returned Hatch , of Ellis Duckworth ? Nay , Bennet , never . 
Nay , not he , said the priest . 
Now , Sir Daniel , having once more joined him to the Queen's party , is in ill odour with the Yorkist lords . 
Thence , Bennet , comes the blow by what procuring , I yet seek but therein lies the nerve of this discomfiture . 
An't please you , Sir Oliver , said Bennet , the axles are so hot in this country that I have long been smelling fire . 
So did this poor sinner , Appleyard . 
And , by your leave , men's spirits are so foully inclined to all of us , that it needs neither York nor Lancaster to spur them on . 
Y' are called to count for this in the end , I wot not how , ye have ever the uppermost at law , and ye think all patched . 
Nay , Bennet , y' are in the wrong . 
Bennet , ye should be glad to be corrected , said Sir Oliver . 
Y' are a prater , Bennet , a talker , a babbler your mouth is wider than your two ears . 
Mend it , Bennet , mend it . 
Nay , I say no more . 
Have it as ye list , said the retainer . 
The priest now rose from the stool , and from the writing case that hung about his neck took forth wax and a taper , and a flint and steel . 
'Tis time we were on the road , Sir Oliver , said Hatch , as he held the priest's stirrup while he mounted . 
Ay but , Bennet , things are changed , returned the parson . 
There is now no Appleyard rest his soul ! to keep the garrison . 
I shall keep you , Bennet . 
I must have a good man to rest me on in this day of black arrows . 
'The arrow that flieth by day , saith the evangel I have no mind of the context nay , I am a sluggard priest , I am too deep in men's affairs . 
Well , let us ride forth , Master Hatch . 
The jackmen should be at the church by now . 
They had passed three of the scattered houses that make up Tunstall hamlet , when , coming to a turn , they saw the church before them . 
Ten or a dozen houses clustered immediately round it but to the back the churchyard was next the meadows . 
At the lych gate , near a score of men were gathered , some in the saddle , some standing by their horses' heads . 
We have not done amiss , praised be the cross of Holywood ! Sir Daniel will be right well content , observed the priest , inwardly numbering the troop . 
Who goes ? Stand ! if ye be true ! shouted Bennet . 
A man was seen slipping through the churchyard among the yews and at the sound of this summons he discarded all concealment , and fairly took to his heels for the forest . 
The men at the gate , who had been hitherto unaware of the stranger's presence , woke and scattered . 
Hatch , roaring an oath , put his horse at the hedge , to head him off but the beast refused , and sent his rider sprawling in the dust . 
The wisest of all had been Dick Shelton . 
Shoot ! shoot ! cried the priest , with sanguinary violence . 
Cover him , Master Dick , said Bennet . 
Bring me him down like a ripe apple . 
The fugitive was now within but a few leaps of safety but this last part of the meadow ran very steeply uphill and the man ran slower in proportion . 
The man stumbled and fell , and a great cheer arose from Hatch and the pursuers . 
But they were counting their corn before the harvest . 
The man fell lightly he was lightly afoot again , turned and waved his cap in a bravado , and was out of sight next moment in the margin of the wood . 
And the plague go with him ! cried Bennet . 
I am shrewdly afeared there has been mischief here . 
Clipsby , good fellow , get ye down from your horse , and search thoroughly among the yews . 
Clipsby was gone but a little while ere he returned carrying a paper . 
This writing was pinned to the church door , he said , handing it to the parson . 
I found naught else , sir parson . 
But what have we here ? The light falls apace . 
Good Master Richard , y' have young eyes . 
Read me , I pray , this libel . 
Dick Shelton took the paper in his hand and read it aloud . 
It contained some lines of very rugged doggerel , hardly even rhyming , written in a gross character , and most uncouthly spelt . 
One is gone one is wele sped Old Apulyaird is ded . 
One is for Maister Bennet Hatch , That burned Grimstone , walls and thatch . 
One for Sir Oliver Oates , That cut Sir Harry Shelton's throat . 
Sir Daniel , ye shull have the fourt We shall think it fair sport . 
Ye shull each have your own part , A blak arrow in each blak heart . 
Get ye to your knees for to pray Ye are ded theeves , by yea and nay ! JON AMEND ALL of the Green Wood , And his jolly fellaweship . 
Item , we have mo arrowes and goode hempen cord for otheres of your following . 
Now , well a day for charity and the Christian graces ! cried Sir Oliver , lamentably . 
Sirs , this is an ill world , and groweth daily worse . 
I will swear upon the cross of Holywood I am as innocent of that good knight's hurt , whether in act or purpose , as the babe unchristened . 
Neither was his throat cut for therein they are again in error , as there still live credible witnesses to show . 
It boots not , sir parson , said Bennet . 
Nay , Master Bennet , not so . 
Keep ye in your due place , good Bennet , answered the priest . 
I shall make mine innocence appear . 
I will , upon no consideration , lose my poor life in error . 
I take all men to witness that I am clear of this matter . 
I was not even in the Moat House . 
Goffe , sound to horse . 
And while the tucket was sounding , Bennet moved close to the bewildered parson , and whispered violently in his ear . 
Dick Shelton saw the priest's eye turned upon him for an instant in a startled glance . 
He had some cause for thought for this Sir Harry Shelton was his own natural father . 
But he said never a word , and kept his countenance unmoved . 
In the meantime , as Bennet was to remain behind , the command of the reinforcement was given to Master Shelton . 
Indeed , there was no choice the men were loutish fellows , dull and unskilled in war , while Dick was not only popular , but resolute and grave beyond his age . 
If the rogues fall upon you , ride for 't ye will do naught by standing . 
And keep ever forward , Master Shelton turn me not back again , an ye love your life there is no help in Tunstall , mind ye that . 
Keep an eye on Sir Daniel he is unsure . 
And think ever a pater noster while on Bennet Hatch . 
There are worse rogues afoot than Bennet . 
So , God speed ! And Heaven be with you , Bennet ! returned Dick . 
Ye were a good friend to me ward , and so I shall say ever . 
Ye shall have your will of it , Bennet , answered Dick . 
But , what cheer , man ! we shall meet again , where ye shall have more need of ale than masses . 
The saints so grant it , Master Dick ! returned the other . 
But here comes Sir Oliver . 
An he were as quick with the long bow as with the pen , he would be a brave man at arms . 
Sir Oliver gave Dick a sealed packet , with this superscription To my ryght worchypful master , Sir Daniel Brackley , knyght , be thys delyvered in haste . 
And Dick , putting it in the bosom of his jacket , gave the word and set forth westward up the village . 
BOOK I THE TWO LADS CHAPTER I AT THE SIGN OF THE SUN IN KETTLEY Sir Daniel and his men lay in and about Kettley that night , warmly quartered and well patrolled . 
By two in the morning , Sir Daniel sat in the inn room , close by the fireside , for it was cold at that hour among the fens of Kettley . 
By his elbow stood a pottle of spiced ale . 
He had taken off his visored headpiece , and sat with his bald head and thin , dark visage resting on one hand , wrapped warmly in a sanguine coloured cloak . 
The host of the Sun stood before the great man . 
Now , mark me , mine host , Sir Daniel said , follow but mine orders , and I shall be your good lord ever . 
I must have good men for head boroughs , and I will have Adam a More high constable see to it narrowly . 
If other men be chosen , it shall avail you nothing rather it shall be found to your sore cost . 
For those that have paid rent to Walsingham I shall take good measure you among the rest , mine host . 
Good knight , said the host , I will swear upon the cross of Holywood I did but pay to Walsingham upon compulsion . 
Nay , bully knight , I love not the rogue Walsinghams they were as poor as thieves , bully knight . 
Give me a great lord like you . 
Nay ask me among the neighbours , I am stout for Brackley . 
It may be , said Sir Daniel , dryly . 
Ye shall then pay twice . 
Bring up yon fellow , Selden ! cried the knight . 
And one of his retainers led up a poor , cringing old man , as pale as a candle , and all shaking with the fen fever . 
Sirrah , said Sir Daniel , your name ? An't please your worship , replied the man , my name is Condall Condall of Shoreby , at your good worship's pleasure . 
I have heard you ill reported on , returned the knight . 
Ye deal in treason , rogue ye trudge the country leasing y' are heavily suspicioned of the death of severals . 
How , fellow , are ye so bold ? But I will bring you down . 
Right honourable and my reverend lord , the man cried , here is some hodge podge , saving your good presence . 
I am but a poor private man , and have hurt none . 
The under sheriff did report of you most vilely , said the knight . 
'Seize me , saith he , 'that Tyndal of Shoreby . 
Condall , my good lord Condall is my poor name , said the unfortunate . 
Condall or Tyndal , it is all one , replied Sir Daniel , coolly . 
For , by my sooth , y' are here and I do mightily suspect your honesty . 
If ye would save your neck , write me swiftly an obligation for twenty pound . 
For twenty pound , my good lord ! cried Condall . 
Here is midsummer madness ! My whole estate amounteth not to seventy shillings . 
Condall or Tyndal , returned Sir Daniel , grinning , I will run my peril of that loss . 
Write me down twenty , and when I have recovered all I may , I will be good lord to you , and pardon you the rest . 
Alas ! my good lord , it may not be I have no skill to write , said Condall . 
Well a day ! returned the knight . 
Here , then , is no remedy . 
Yet I would fain have spared you , Tyndal , had my conscience suffered . 
Selden , take me this old shrew softly to the nearest elm , and hang me him tenderly by the neck , where I may see him at my riding . 
Friend , quoth Sir Daniel , ye will now write two score . 
Go to ! y' are too cunning for a livelihood of seventy shillings . 
Selden , see him write me this in good form , and have it duly witnessed . 
And Sir Daniel , who was a very merry knight , none merrier in England , took a drink of his mulled ale , and lay back , smiling . 
Meanwhile , the boy upon the floor began to stir , and presently sat up and looked about him with a scare . 
Hither , said Sir Daniel and as the other rose at his command and came slowly towards him , he leaned back and laughed outright . 
By the rood ! he cried , a sturdy boy ! The lad flushed crimson with anger , and darted a look of hate out of his dark eyes . 
Now that he was on his legs , it was more difficult to make certain of his age . 
His face looked somewhat older in expression , but it was as smooth as a young child's and in bone and body he was unusually slender , and somewhat awkward of gait . 
Ye have called me , Sir Daniel , he said . 
Was it to laugh at my poor plight ? Nay , now , let laugh , said the knight . 
Good shrew , let laugh , I pray you . 
An ye could see yourself , I warrant ye would laugh the first . 
Well , cried the lad , flushing , ye shall answer this when ye answer for the other . 
I will make you a marriage of a thousand pounds , go to ! and cherish you exceedingly . 
I took you , indeed , roughly , as the time demanded but from henceforth I shall ungrudgingly maintain and cheerfully serve you . 
Ye shall be Mrs. Shelton Lady Shelton , by my troth ! for the lad promiseth bravely . 
Tut ! ye will not shy for honest laughter it purgeth melancholy . 
They are no rogues who laugh , good cousin . 
Good mine host , lay me a meal now for my cousin , Master John . 
Sit ye down , sweetheart , and eat . 
Nay , said Master John , I will break no bread . 
Since ye force me to this sin , I will fast for my soul's interest . 
But , good mine host , I pray you of courtesy give me a cup of fair water I shall be much beholden to your courtesy indeed . 
Ye shall have a dispensation , go to ! cried the knight . 
Shalt be well shriven , by my faith ! Content you , then , and eat . 
But the lad was obstinate , drank a cup of water , and , once more wrapping himself closely in his mantle , sat in a far corner , brooding . 
Save you , Sir Daniel , he said . 
How ! Dickie Shelton ! cried the knight and at the mention of Dick's name the other lad looked curiously across . 
How say you ? Sore bested ? returned the knight . 
Nay , then , we will make speed sitting down , good Richard . 
As the world goes in this poor realm of England , he that rides softliest rides surest . 
Delay , they say , begetteth peril but it is rather this itch of doing that undoes men mark it , Dick . 
But let me see , first , what cattle ye have brought . 
Selden , a link here at the door ! And Sir Daniel strode forth into the village street , and , by the red glow of a torch , inspected his new troops . 
He was an unpopular neighbour and an unpopular master but as a leader in war he was well beloved by those who rode behind his pennant . 
His dash , his proved courage , his forethought for the soldiers' comfort , even his rough gibes , were all to the taste of the bold blades in jack and salet . 
Nay , by the rood ! he cried , what poor dogs are these ? Here be some as crooked as a bow , and some as lean as a spear . 
Friends , ye shall ride in the front of the battle I can spare you , friends . 
I will show you any way , Sir Daniel , but the way to change sides , returned Clipsby , sturdily . 
Sir Daniel laughed a guffaw . 
Why , well said ! he cried . 
Hast a shrewd tongue in thy mouth , go to ! I will forgive you for that merry word . 
Selden , see them fed , both man and brute . 
The knight re entered the inn . 
Now , friend Dick , he said , fall to . 
Here is good ale and bacon . 
Eat , while that I read . 
Sir Daniel opened the packet , and as he read his brow darkened . 
When he had done he sat a little , musing . 
Then he looked sharply at his ward . 
Dick , said he , Y' have seen this penny rhyme ? The lad replied in the affirmative . 
It bears your father's name , continued the knight and our poor shrew of a parson is , by some mad soul , accused of slaying him . 
He did most eagerly deny it , answered Dick . 
He did ? cried the knight , very sharply . 
He has a loose tongue he babbles like a jack sparrow . 
Some day , when I may find the leisure , Dick , I will myself more fully inform you of these matters . 
There was one Duckworth shrewdly blamed for it but the times were troubled , and there was no justice to be got . 
It befell at the Moat House ? Dick ventured , with a beating at his heart . 
It befell between the Moat House and Holywood , replied Sir Daniel , calmly but he shot a covert glance , black with suspicion , at Dick's face . 
And now , added the knight , speed you with your meal ye shall return to Tunstall with a line from me . 
Prithee , Sir Daniel , he cried , send one of the villains ! I beseech you let me to the battle . 
I can strike a stroke , I promise you . 
I misdoubt it not , replied Sir Daniel , sitting down to write . 
But here , Dick , is no honour to be won . 
I lie in Kettley till I have sure tidings of the war , and then ride to join me with the conqueror . 
Toss pot and Shuttle wit run in , but my Lord Good Counsel sits o' one side , waiting . 
Meanwhile , young Shelton was going on heartily enough with his breakfast , when he felt a touch upon his arm , and a very soft voice whispering in his ear . 
Make not a sign , I do beseech you , said the voice , but of your charity tell me the straight way to Holywood . 
Beseech you , now , good boy , comfort a poor soul in peril and extreme distress , and set me so far forth upon the way to my repose . 
Take the path by the windmill , answered Dick , in the same tone it will bring you to Till Ferry there inquire again . 
And without turning his head , he fell again to eating . 
But with the tail of his eye he caught a glimpse of the young lad called Master John stealthily creeping from the room . 
Well , if he goes through the fen , I may come up with him and pull his ears . 
Half an hour later , Sir Daniel gave Dick the letter , and bade him speed to the Moat House . 
And , again , some half an hour after Dick's departure , a messenger came , in hot haste , from my Lord of Risingham . 
Only the main battle standeth fast . 
An we had your fresh men , we should tilt you them all into the river . 
What , sir knight ! Will ye be the last ? It stands not with your good credit . 
Nay , cried the knight , I was but now upon the march . 
Selden , sound me the tucket . 
Sir , I am with you on the instant . 
It is not two hours since the more part of my command came in , sir messenger . 
What would ye have ? Spurring is good meat , but yet it killed the charger . 
Bustle , boys ! By this time the tucket was sounding cheerily in the morning , and from all sides Sir Daniel's men poured into the main street and formed before the inn . 
They had slept upon their arms , with chargers saddled , and in ten minutes five score men at arms and archers , cleanly equipped and briskly disciplined , stood ranked and ready . 
The chief part were in Sir Daniel's livery , murrey and blue , which gave the greater show to their array . 
The best armed rode first and away out of sight , at the tail of the column , came the sorry reinforcement of the night before . 
Sir Daniel looked with pride along the line . 
Here be the lads to serve you in a pinch , he said . 
They are pretty men , indeed , replied the messenger . 
It but augments my sorrow that ye had not marched the earlier . 
Well , said the knight , what would ye ? The beginning of a feast and the end of a fray , sir messenger and he mounted into his saddle . 
Why ! how now ! he cried . 
John ! Joanna ! Nay , by the sacred rood ! where is she ? Host , where is that girl ? Girl , Sir Daniel ? cried the landlord . 
Nay , sir , I saw no girl . 
Boy , then , dotard ! cried the knight . 
Well , I thought none evil . 
I saw him her I saw her in the stable a good hour agone 'a was saddling a grey horse . 
Now , by the rood ! cried Sir Daniel , the wench was worth five hundred pound to me and more . 
Sir knight , observed the messenger , with bitterness , while that ye are here , roaring for five hundred pounds , the realm of England is elsewhere being lost and won . 
It is well said , replied Sir Daniel . 
Selden , fall me out with six cross bowmen hunt me her down . 
I care not what it cost but , at my returning , let me find her at the Moat House . 
Be it upon your head . 
And now , sir messenger , we march . 
And the troop broke into a good trot , and Selden and his six men were left behind upon the street of Kettley , with the staring villagers . 
CHAPTER II IN THE FEN It was near six in the May morning when Dick began to ride down into the fen upon his homeward way . 
The sky was all blue the jolly wind blew loud and steady the windmill sails were spinning and the willows over all the fen rippling and whitening like a field of corn . 
He had been all night in the saddle , but his heart was good and his body sound , and he rode right merrily . 
The path lay almost straight through the morass . 
About a mile from Kettley , Dick came to one such break in the plain line of causeway , where the reeds and willows grew dispersedly like little islands and confused the eye . 
Instantly , as though it had divined the neighbourhood of help , the poor beast began to neigh most piercingly . 
Shalt not lie there to drown by inches ! And he made ready his crossbow , and put a quarrel through the creature's head . 
Dick rode on after this act of rugged mercy , somewhat sobered in spirit , and looking closely about him for any sign of his less happy predecessor in the way . 
I would I had dared to tell him further , he thought for I fear he has miscarried in the slough . 
Are ye there ? he said , reining in . 
Ye lay so close among the reeds that I had passed you by . 
I saw your horse bemired , and put him from his agony which , by my sooth ! an ye had been a more merciful rider , ye had done yourself . 
But come forth out of your hiding . 
Here be none to trouble you . 
Nay , good boy , I have no arms , nor skill to use them if I had , replied the other , stepping forth upon the pathway . 
Why call me 'boy' ? cried Dick . 
Y' are not , I trow , the elder of us twain . 
Good Master Shelton , said the other , prithee forgive me . 
I have none the least intention to offend . 
Rather I would in every way beseech your gentleness and favour , for I am now worse bested than ever , having lost my way , my cloak , and my poor horse . 
Would ye mind a ducking ? Blood of wound or dust of travel that's a man's adornment . 
Nay , then , I like him better plain , observed the lad . 
But , prithee , how shall I do ? Prithee , good Master Richard , help me with your good counsel . 
If I come not safe to Holywood , I am undone . 
Nay , said Dick , dismounting , I will give more than counsel . 
Take my horse , and I will run awhile , and when I am weary we shall change again , that so , riding and running , both may go the speedier . 
So the change was made , and they went forward as briskly as they durst on the uneven causeway , Dick with his hand upon the other's knee . 
How call ye your name ? asked Dick . 
Call me John Matcham , replied the lad . 
And what make ye to Holywood ? Dick continued . 
I seek sanctuary from a man that would oppress me , was the answer . 
The good Abbot of Holywood is a strong pillar to the weak . 
And how came ye with Sir Daniel , Master Matcham ? pursued Dick . 
Nay , there shall come a day between us he shall smart for all ! Would ye shoot at the moon with a hand gun ? said Dick . 
'Tis a valiant knight , and hath a hand of iron . 
An he guessed I had made or meddled with your flight , it would go sore with me . 
Ay , poor boy , returned the other , y' are his ward , I know it . 
Boy again ! said Dick . 
Nay , then , shall I call you girl , good Richard ? asked Matcham . 
Never a girl for me , returned Dick . 
I do abjure the crew of them ! Ye speak boyishly , said the other . 
Ye think more of them than ye pretend . 
Not I , said Dick , stoutly . 
They come not in my mind . 
A plague of them , say I ! Give me to hunt and to fight and to feast , and to live with jolly foresters . 
Master Matcham crossed himself with fervour , and appeared to pray . 
What make ye ? Dick inquired . 
I pray for her spirit , answered the other , with a somewhat troubled voice . 
For a witch's spirit ? Dick cried . 
But pray for her , an ye list she was the best wench in Europe , was this Joan of Arc . 
Old Appleyard the archer ran from her , he said , as if she had been Mahoun . 
Nay , she was a brave wench . 
Y' are a milk sopping baby , so to harp on women . 
Nay , I am no fighter , said Matcham , eagerly . 
I mean no tittle of offence . 
And if I talk of women , it is because I heard ye were to marry . 
I to marry ! Dick exclaimed . 
Well , it is the first I hear of it . 
And with whom was I to marry ? One Joan Sedley , replied Matcham , colouring . 
It was Sir Daniel's doing he hath money to gain upon both sides and , indeed , I have heard the poor wench bemoaning herself pitifully of the match . 
It seems she is of your mind , or else distasted to the bridegroom . 
Well ! marriage is like death , it comes to all , said Dick , with resignation . 
An y' are to marry , ye can but marry . 
What matters foul or fair ? These be but toys . 
Y' are no milksop , Master Richard ye will wed with dry eyes , anyhow . 
It is well said , replied Shelton . 
Your lady wife is like to have a pleasant lord , said Matcham . 
She shall have the lord Heaven made her for , returned Dick . 
It trow there be worse as well as better . 
Ah , the poor wench ! cried the other . 
And why so poor ? asked Dick . 
To wed a man of wood , replied his companion . 
Good Dick , forgive me , cried the other . 
Nay , y' are the best heart in England I but laughed . 
Forgive me now , sweet Dick . 
Nay , no fool words , returned Dick , a little embarrassed by his companion's warmth . 
I am not touchy , praise the saints . 
And at that moment the wind , which was blowing straight behind them as they went , brought them the rough flourish of Sir Daniel's trumpeter . 
Hark ! said Dick , the tucket soundeth . 
Ay , said Matcham , they have found my flight , and now I am unhorsed ! and he became pale as death . 
Nay , what cheer ! returned Dick . 
Y' have a long start , and we are near the ferry . 
And it is I , methinks , that am unhorsed . 
Alack , I shall be taken ! cried the fugitive . 
Dick , kind Dick , beseech ye help me but a little ! Why , now , what aileth thee ? said Dick . 
Methinks I help you very patently . 
The saints so do to me again if I default you . 
Come , pick me up a good heart , Sir White face . 
The way betters here spur me the horse . 
Go faster ! faster ! Nay , mind not for me I can run like a deer . 
It was a dingy stream but upon this bright , spirited morning everything was become beautiful . 
The wind and the martens broke it up into innumerable dimples and the reflection of the sky was scattered over all the surface in crumbs of smiling blue . 
A creek ran up to meet the path , and close under the bank the ferryman's hut lay snugly . 
It was of wattle and clay , and the grass grew green upon the roof . 
Dick went to the door and opened it . 
Within , upon a foul old russet cloak , the ferryman lay stretched and shivering a great hulk of a man , but lean and shaken by the country fever . 
Hey , Master Shelton , he said , be ye for the ferry ? Ill times , ill times ! Look to yourself . 
There is a fellowship abroad . 
Ye were better turn round on your two heels and try the bridge . 
Nay time's in the saddle , answered Dick . 
Time will ride , Hugh Ferryman . 
I am hot in haste . 
A wilful man ! returned the ferryman , rising . 
An ye win safe to the Moat House , y' have done lucky but I say no more . 
And then catching sight of Matcham , Who be this ? he asked , as he paused , blinking , on the threshold of his cabin . 
It is my kinsman , Master Matcham , answered Dick . 
Give ye good day , good ferryman , said Matcham , who had dismounted , and now came forward , leading the horse . 
Launch me your boat , I prithee we are sore in haste . 
The gaunt ferryman continued staring . 
By the mass ! he cried at length , and laughed with open throat . 
Matcham coloured to his neck and winced and Dick , with an angry countenance , put his hand on the lout's shoulder . 
How now , churl ! he cried . 
Fall to thy business , and leave mocking thy betters . 
Hugh Ferryman grumblingly undid his boat , and shoved it a little forth into the deep water . 
Then Dick led in the horse , and Matcham followed . 
Ye be mortal small made , master , said Hugh , with a wide grin something o' the wrong model , belike . 
Nay , Master Shelton , I am for you , he added , getting to his oars . 
A cat may look at a king . 
I did but take a shot of the eye at Master Matcham . 
Sirrah , no more words , said Dick . 
They were by that time at the mouth of the creek , and the view opened up and down the river . 
Everywhere it was enclosed with islands . 
Clay banks were falling in , willows nodding , reeds waving , martens dipping and piping . 
There was no sign of man in the labyrinth of waters . 
My master , said the ferryman , keeping the boat steady with one oar , I have a shrew guess that John a Fenne is on the island . 
He bears me a black grudge to all Sir Daniel's . 
How if I turned me up stream and landed you an arrow flight above the path ? Ye were best not meddle with John Fenne . 
How , then ? is he of this company ? asked Dick . 
Nay , mum is the word , said Hugh . 
But I would go up water , Dick . 
How if Master Matcham came by an arrow ? and he laughed again . 
Be it so , Hugh , answered Dick . 
Look ye , then , pursued Hugh . 
Sith it shall so be , unsling me your cross bow so now make it ready good place me a quarrel . 
Ay , keep it so , and look upon me grimly . 
What meaneth this ? asked Dick . 
Do these churls ride so roughly ? Dick inquired . 
Do they command Sir Daniel's own ferry ? Nay , whispered the ferryman , winking . 
Mark me ! Sir Daniel shall down . 
Mum ! And he bent over his oars . 
They pulled a long way up the river , turned the tail of an island , and came softly down a narrow channel next the opposite bank . 
Then Hugh held water in midstream . 
I must land you here among the willows , he said . 
Here is no path but willow swamps and quagmires , answered Dick . 
Master Shelton , replied Hugh , I dare not take ye nearer down , for your own sake now . 
He watcheth me the ferry , lying on his bow . 
All that go by and owe Sir Daniel goodwill , he shooteth down like rabbits . 
I heard him swear it by the rood . 
A murrain ! cried Hugh . 
He was on the upper island all the while ! He pulled straight for shore . 
Threat me with your bow , good Dick threat me with it plain , he added . 
I have tried to save your skins , save you mine ! The boat ran into a tough thicket of willows with a crash . 
The horse neighed and trampled and the boat , which was swinging in an eddy , came on and off and pitched with violence . 
It may not be , Hugh here is no landing , cried Dick but he still struggled valiantly with the obstinate thicket and the startled animal . 
A tall man appeared upon the shore of the island , a long bow in his hand . 
Dick saw him for an instant , with the corner of his eye , bending the bow with a great effort , his face crimson with hurry . 
Who goes ? he shouted . 
Hugh , who goes ? 'Tis Master Shelton , John , replied the ferryman . 
Stand , Dick Shelton ! bawled the man upon the island . 
Ye shall have no hurt , upon the rood ! Stand ! Back out , Hugh Ferryman . 
Dick cried a taunting answer . 
Nay , then , ye shall go afoot , returned the man and he let drive an arrow . 
The horse , struck by the shaft , lashed out in agony and terror the boat capsized , and the next moment all were struggling in the eddies of the river . 
It was the riding rod , that Matcham , crawling forth upon an overhanging willow , had opportunely thrust into his grasp . 
By the mass ! cried Dick , as he was helped ashore , that makes a life I owe you . 
I swim like a cannon ball . 
And he turned instantly towards the island . 
Midway over , Hugh Ferryman was swimming with his upturned boat , while John a Fenne , furious at the ill fortune of his shot , bawled to him to hurry . 
And adding example to his words , he began to run , dodging among the willows , and in marshy places leaping from tussock to tussock . 
He had no time to look for his direction all he could do was to turn his back upon the river , and put all his heart to running . 
But here Matcham , who had been dragging far into the rear , threw himself fairly down . 
Leave me , Dick ! he cried , pantingly I can no more . 
Dick turned , and came back to where his companion lay . 
Nay , Jack , leave thee ! he cried . 
That were a knave's trick , to be sure , when ye risked a shot and a ducking , ay , and a drowning too , to save my life . 
Can ye so ? cried Dick , with open eyes . 
It was the one manly accomplishment of which he was himself incapable . 
In the order of the things that he admired , next to having killed a man in single fight came swimming . 
Well , he said , here is a lesson to despise no man . 
I promised to care for you as far as Holywood , and , by the rood , Jack , y' are more capable to care for me . 
Well , Dick , we're friends now , said Matcham . 
Nay , I never was unfriends , answered Dick . 
Y' are a brave lad in your way , albeit something of a milksop , too . 
I never met your like before this day . 
But , prithee , fetch back your breath , and let us on . 
Here is no place for chatter . 
My foot hurts shrewdly , said Matcham . 
Nay , I had forgot your foot , returned Dick . 
Well , we must go the gentlier . 
I would I knew rightly where we were . 
I have clean lost the path yet that may be for the better , too . 
An they watch the ferry , they watch the path , belike , as well . 
I would Sir Daniel were back with two score men he would sweep me these rascals as the wind sweeps leaves . 
Come , Jack , lean ye on my shoulder , ye poor shrew . 
Nay , y' are not tall enough . 
What age are ye , for a wager ? twelve ? Nay , I am sixteen , said Matcham . 
Y' are poorly grown to height , then , answered Dick . 
We shall go softly , never fear . 
I owe you a life I am a good repayer , Jack , of good or evil . 
They began to go forward up the slope . 
We must hit the road , early or late , continued Dick and then for a fresh start . 
By the mass ! but y' 'ave a rickety hand , Jack . 
If I had a hand like that , I would think shame . 
I tell you , he went on , with a sudden chuckle , I swear by the mass I believe Hugh Ferryman took you for a maid . 
Nay , never ! cried the other , colouring high . 
A' did , though , for a wager ! Dick exclaimed . 
Ye would be well favoured for a wench . 
Well , said Matcham , ye know right well that I am none . 
Nay , I know that I do but jest , said Dick . 
Ye'll be a man before your mother , Jack . 
What cheer , my bully ! Ye shall strike shrewd strokes . 
Now , which , I marvel , of you or me , shall be first knighted , Jack ? for knighted I shall be , or die for 't . 
'Sir Richard Shelton , Knight' it soundeth bravely . 
But 'Sir John Matcham' soundeth not amiss . 
Prithee , Dick , stop till I drink , said the other , pausing where a little clear spring welled out of the slope into a gravelled basin no bigger than a pocket . 
And O , Dick , if I might come by anything to eat ! my very heart aches with hunger . 
Why , fool , did ye not eat at Kettley ? asked Dick . 
I had made a vow it was a sin I had been led into , stammered Matcham but now , if it were but dry bread , I would eat it greedily . 
Sit ye , then , and eat , said Dick , while that I scout a little forward for the road . 
And he took a wallet from his girdle , wherein were bread and pieces of dry bacon , and , while Matcham fell heartily to , struck farther forth among the trees . 
Suddenly a doe passed like a shadow through the underwood in front of him , and he paused , disgusted at the chance . 
Luck had served him well . 
The boat had been righted it was even now midway on the ferry . 
Beyond that there was no sign of man , nor aught moving but the wind . 
He was about to descend , when , taking a last view , his eye lit upon a string of moving points about the middle of the fen . 
The trees grew more and more in groves , with heathy places in between , sandy , gorsy , and dotted with old yews . 
The ground became more and more uneven , full of pits and hillocks . 
And with every step of the ascent the wind still blew the shriller , and the trees bent before the gusts like fishing rods . 
They had just entered one of the clearings , when Dick suddenly clapped down upon his face among the brambles , and began to crawl slowly backward towards the shelter of the grove . 
For all reply , Dick pointed with his finger . 
At the far end of the clearing , a fir grew high above the neighbouring wood , and planted its black shock of foliage clear against the sky . 
For about fifty feet above the ground the trunk grew straight and solid like a column . 
Let us try to the left , said Dick . 
We had near fallen foully , Jack . 
Ten minutes afterwards they struck into a beaten path . 
Here is a piece of forest that I know not , Dick remarked . 
Where goeth me this track ? Let us even try , said Matcham . 
A few yards further , the path came to the top of a ridge and began to go down abruptly into a cup shaped hollow . 
What may this be ? whispered Matcham . 
Nay , by the mass , I know not , answered Dick . 
I am all at sea . 
With beating hearts , they descended through the hawthorns . 
Yet a little farther and they came forth before the ruins of the house . 
It had been a pleasant mansion and a strong . 
A dry ditch was dug deep about it but it was now choked with masonry , and bridged by a fallen rafter . 
Already in the interior a few plants were springing green among the chinks . 
Now I bethink me , whispered Dick , this must be Grimstone . 
It was a hold of one Simon Malmesbury Sir Daniel was his bane ! 'Twas Bennet Hatch that burned it , now five years agone . 
In sooth , 'twas pity , for it was a fair house . 
Down in the hollow , where no wind blew , it was both warm and still and Matcham , laying one hand upon Dick's arm , held up a warning finger . 
Then came a strange sound , breaking on the quiet . 
It was twice repeated ere they recognised its nature . 
It was the sound of a big man clearing his throat and just then a hoarse , untuneful voice broke into singing . 
The two lads stood looking at each other . 
Whoever he might be , their invisible neighbour was just beyond the ruin . 
Dick would have withheld him , had he been in time as it was , he was fain to follow . 
Right in the corner of the ruin , two rafters had fallen crosswise , and protected a clear space no larger than a pew in church . 
Into this the lads silently lowered themselves . 
There they were perfectly concealed , and through an arrow loophole commanded a view upon the farther side . 
Peering through this , they were struck stiff with terror at their predicament . 
To retreat was impossible they scarce dared to breathe . 
Plainly this was the singer plainly he had been stirring the caldron , when some incautious step among the lumber had fallen upon his ear . 
A little further off , another man lay slumbering , rolled in a brown cloak , with a butterfly hovering above his face . 
Presently the fellow relaxed from his attitude of attention , raised the spoon to his mouth , tasted its contents , nodded , and then fell again to stirring and singing . 
'O , they must need to walk in wood that may not walk in town , he croaked , taking up his song where he had left it . 
O , sir , we walk not here at all an evil thing to do . 
But if we meet with the good king's deer to shoot a shaft into . 
At length , apparently , he judged the mess was ready for taking the horn from his girdle , he blew three modulated calls . 
The other fellow awoke , rolled over , brushed away the butterfly , and looked about him . 
How now , brother ? he said . 
Dinner ? Ay , sot , replied the cook , dinner it is , and a dry dinner , too , with neither ale nor bread . 
But now are men's spirits dead and this John Amend All , save us and guard us ! but a stuffed booby to scare crows withal . 
Nay , returned the other , y' are too set on meat and drinking , Lawless . 
Bide ye a bit the good time cometh . 
Look ye , returned the cook , I have even waited for this good time sith that I was so high . 
What cometh of it ? Naught ! I were better to have bided in the cloister . 
John Abbot availeth more than John Amend All . 
By 'r Lady ! here they come . 
One after another , tall , likely fellows began to stroll into the lawn . 
Each as he came produced a knife and a horn cup , helped himself from the caldron , and sat down upon the grass to eat . 
They came in the silence of hunger , and scarce growled a salutation , but fell instantly to meat . 
Lads ! he cried , good fellows all , and my right merry friends , y' have sung this while on a dry whistle and lived at little ease . 
But what said I ever ? Abide Fortune constantly she turneth , turneth swift . 
And lo ! here is her little firstling even that good creature , ale ! There was a murmur of applause as the bearers set down the stretcher and displayed a goodly cask . 
And now haste ye , boys , the man continued . 
Lawless the cook was by this time already at his second horn of ale . 
He raised it , as if to pledge the speaker . 
He had liever a gold noble and a pottle of canary wine than all the vengeances in purgatory . 
Lawless , replied the other , to reach the Moat House , Sir Daniel must pass the forest . 
We shall make that passage dearer , pardy , than any battle . 
'Tis a fat buck he will make a dinner for us all . 
Ay , returned Lawless , I have eaten many of these dinners beforehand but the cooking of them is hot work , good Master Ellis . 
And meanwhile what do we ? We make black arrows , we write rhymes , and we drink fair cold water , that discomfortable drink . 
Y' are untrue , Will Lawless . 
Ye still smell of the Grey Friars' buttery greed is your undoing , answered Ellis . 
We took twenty pounds from Appleyard . 
We took seven marks from the messenger last night . 
A day ago we had fifty from the merchant . 
And to day , said one of the men , I stopped a fat pardoner riding apace for Holywood . 
Five score shillings ! he grumbled . 
Fool , he had more in his sandal , or stitched into his tippet . 
Y' are but a child , Tom Cuckow ye have lost the fish . 
But , for all that , Ellis pocketed the purse with nonchalance . 
He stood leaning on his boar spear , and looked round upon the rest . 
They , in various attitudes , took greedily of the venison pottage , and liberally washed it down with ale . 
This was a good day they were in luck but business pressed , and they were speedy in their eating . 
The first comers had by this time even despatched their dinner . 
Otherwise they had not dared to stir and this scene of forest life had gone on before their eyes like a scene upon a theatre . 
But now there came a strange interruption . 
The tall chimney which over topped the remainder of the ruins rose right above their hiding place . 
There came a whistle in the air , and then a sounding smack , and the fragments of a broken arrow fell about their ears . 
Some one from the upper quarters of the wood , perhaps the very sentinel they saw posted in the fir , had shot an arrow at the chimney top . 
Matcham could not restrain a little cry , which he instantly stifled , and even Dick started with surprise , and dropped the windac from his fingers . 
But to the fellows on the lawn , this shaft was an expected signal . 
They were all afoot together , tightening their belts , testing their bow strings , loosening sword and dagger in the sheath . 
Ellis held up his hand his face had suddenly assumed a look of savage energy the white of his eyes shone in his sun brown face . 
Lads , he said , ye know your places . 
Let not one man's soul escape you . 
Appleyard was a whet before a meal but now we go to table . 
'Tis not Sir Daniel ! he panted . 
Is the arrow gone ? It struck but now , replied Ellis . 
A murrain ! cried the messenger . 
Methought I heard it whistle . 
CHAPTER V BLOODY AS THE HUNTER The lads lay quiet till the last footstep had melted on the wind . 
Then they arose , and with many an ache , for they were weary with constraint , clambered through the ruins , and recrossed the ditch upon the rafter . 
Matcham had picked up the windac and went first , Dick following stiffly , with his cross bow on his arm . 
And now , said Matcham , forth to Holywood . 
Ay , by my sooth ! returned Dick . 
An I be not in time to warn these lads , I will go die with them . 
What ! would ye have me leave my own men that I have lived among . 
I trow not ! Give me my windac . 
But there was nothing further from Matcham's mind . 
Dick , he said , ye sware before the saints that ye would see me safe to Holywood . 
Would ye be forsworn ? Would you desert me a perjurer ? Nay , I sware for the best , returned Dick . 
I meant it too but now ! But look ye , Jack , turn again with me . 
Ye but deride me , answered Matcham . 
These men ye go to succour are the I same that hunt me to my ruin . 
I cannot help it , Jack , he said . 
What would ye ? Ye run no great peril , man and these are in the way of death . 
Think of it ! What a murrain do ye keep me here for ? Give me the windac . 
What would ye ? Dick cried again . 
Would ye have me credit thieves ? Nay , I have heard it before now , returned Matcham . 
The fame goeth currently , it was Sir Daniel slew him . 
He slew him under oath in his own house he shed the innocent blood . 
Heaven wearies for the avenging on't and you the man's son ye go about to comfort and defend the murderer ! Jack , cried the lad I know not . 
But your father , Dick ? said Matcham , somewhat wavering . 
Your father ? and your oath to me ? Ye took the saints to witness . 
My father ? cried Shelton . 
And for mine oath , good Jack , ye shall absolve me of it here . 
For the lives' sake of many men that hurt you not , and for mine honour , ye shall set me free . 
I , Dick ? Never ! returned Matcham . 
An ye leave me , y' are forsworn , and so I shall declare it . 
My blood heats , said Dick . 
Give me the windac ! Give it me ! I'll not , said Matcham . 
I'll save you in your teeth . 
I'll make you ! Try it , said the other . 
They stood , looking in each other's eyes , each ready for a spring . 
Matcham lay where he had fallen , with his face in the grass , not thinking of resistance . 
I'll teach you ! he cried , fiercely . 
Oath or no oath , ye may go hang for me ! And he turned and began to run . 
Matcham was on his feet at once , and began running after him . 
What d'ye want ? cried Dick , stopping . 
What make ye after me ? Stand off ! Will follow an I please , said Matcham . 
This wood is free to me . 
Stand back , by 'r Lady ! returned Dick , raising his bow . 
Ah , y' are a brave boy ! retorted Matcham . 
Shoot ! Dick lowered his weapon in some confusion . 
See here , he said . 
Y' have done me ill enough . 
Go your way in fair wise or , whether I will or not , I must even drive you to it . 
Well , said Matcham , doggedly , y' are the stronger . 
I shall not leave to follow thee , Dick , unless thou makest me , he added . 
Dick was almost beside himself . 
Y' are mad , I think , he cried . 
Fool fellow , I am hasting to your foes as fast as foot can carry me , go I thither . 
I care not , Dick , replied the lad . 
If y' are bound to die , Dick , I'll die too . 
I would liever go with you to prison than to go free without you . 
Well , returned the other , I may stand no longer prating . 
Follow me , if ye must but if ye play me false , it shall but little advance you , mark ye that . 
Shalt have a quarrel in thine inwards , boy . 
So saying , Dick took once more to his heels , keeping in the margin of the thicket and looking briskly about him as he went . 
At a good pace he rattled out of the dell , and came again into the more open quarters of the wood . 
To the left a little eminence appeared , spotted with golden gorse , and crowned with a black tuft of firs . 
I shall see from there , he thought , and struck for it across a heathy clearing . 
He had gone but a few yards , when Matcham touched him on the arm , and pointed . 
One after another gained the top , showed for a moment against the sky , and then dipped upon the further side , until the last was gone . 
Dick looked at Matcham with a kindlier eye . 
So y' are to be true to me , Jack ? he asked . 
I thought ye were of the other party . 
What cheer ! cried Dick . 
Now the saints behold us ! would ye snivel for a word ? Ye hurt me , sobbed Matcham . 
Ye hurt me when ye threw me down . 
Y' are a coward to abuse your strength . 
Nay , that is fool's talk , said Dick , roughly . 
Y' had no title to my windac , Master John . 
I would 'a' done right to have well basted you . 
If ye go with me , ye must obey me and so , come . 
Below , in the bottom of a considerable valley , the short cut from Tunstall hamlet wound downwards to the ferry . 
It was well beaten , and the eye followed it easily from point to point . 
Here it was bordered by open glades there the forest closed upon it every hundred yards it ran beside an ambush . 
Now , mark , Dick whispered . 
They be already well advanced into the wood their safety lieth rather in continuing forward . 
But see ye where this wide glade runneth down before us , and in the midst of it , these two score trees make like an island ? There were their safety . 
An they but come sound as far as that , I will make shift to warn them . 
But my heart misgiveth me they are but seven against so many , and they but carry cross bows . 
The long bow , Jack , will have the uppermost ever . 
Meanwhile , Selden and his men still wound up the path , ignorant of their danger , and momently drew nearer hand . 
Once , indeed , they paused , drew into a group , and seemed to point and listen . 
They were but just abreast of this , when an arrow shone flying . 
One of the men threw up his arms , his horse reared , and both fell and struggled together in a mass . 
A second arrow from somewhat farther off glanced in a wide arch a second rider bit the dust . 
From every clump they passed an arrow sped . 
Soon a horse fell , but the rider found his feet and continued to pursue his comrades till a second shot despatched him . 
All this time not one of the assailants had for a moment shown himself . 
Here and there along the path , horse or man rolled , undespatched , in his agony but no merciful enemy broke cover to put them from their pain . 
The solitary survivor stood bewildered in the road beside his fallen charger . 
He had come the length of that broad glade , with the island of timber , pointed out by Dick . 
He was not , perhaps , five hundred yards from where the boys lay hidden and they could see him plainly , looking to and fro in deadly expectation . 
But nothing came and the man began to pluck up his courage , and suddenly unslung and bent his bow . 
At the same time , by something in his action , Dick recognised Selden . 
At this offer of resistance , from all about him in the covert of the woods there went up the sound of laughter . 
A score of men , at least , for this was the very thickest of the ambush , joined in this cruel and untimely mirth . 
Then an arrow glanced over Selden's shoulder and he leaped and ran a little back . 
Another dart struck quivering at his heel . 
He made for the cover . 
A third shaft leaped out right in his face , and fell short in front of him . 
And then the laughter was repeated loudly , rising and reechoing from different thickets . 
It was plain that his assailants were but baiting him , as men , in those days , baited the poor bull , or as the cat still trifles with the mouse . 
Selden began to understand he uttered a roar of anger , shouldered his cross bow , and sent a quarrel at a venture into the wood . 
Chance favoured him , for a slight cry responded . 
Then , throwing down his weapon , Selden began to run before him up the glade , and almost in a straight line for Dick and Matcham . 
The companions of the Black Arrow now began to shoot in earnest . 
A whistle sounded thrice , and then again twice . 
It was repeated from another quarter . 
Selden still ran , bounding ever and again an arrow followed him , but still would miss . 
It began to appear as if he might escape . 
He was within fifty yards of them , when an arrow struck him and he fell . 
He was up again , indeed , upon the instant but now he ran staggering , and , like a blind man , turned aside from his direction . 
Dick leaped to his feet and waved to him . 
O , the poor heart ! cried Matcham , with clasped hands . 
And Dick stood petrified upon the hill , a mark for archery . 
Shoot not ! Take him alive ! It is young Shelton Harry's son . 
And immediately after a shrill whistle sounded several times , and was again taken up and repeated farther off . 
The whistle , it appeared , was John Amend All's battle trumpet , by which he published his directions . 
Ah , foul fortune ! cried Dick . 
Swiftly , Jack , come swiftly ! And the pair turned and ran back through the open pine clump that covered the summit of the hill . 
CHAPTER VI TO THE DAY'S END It was , indeed , high time for them to run . 
On every side the company of the Black Arrow was making for the hill . 
Dick plunged into the nearest cover . 
It was a tall grove of oaks , firm under foot and clear of underbrush , and as it lay down hill , they made good speed . 
There followed next a piece of open , which Dick avoided , holding to his left . 
Two minutes after , and the same obstacle arising , the lads followed the same course . 
The lads paused to breathe . 
There was no sound of pursuit . 
On again , said Dick and , tired as they were , and Matcham limping with his injured foot , they pulled themselves together , and once more pelted down the hill . 
Three minutes later , they were breasting through a low thicket of evergreen . 
High overhead , the tall trees made a continuous roof of foliage . 
It was a pillared grove , as high as a cathedral , and except for the hollies among which the lads were struggling , open and smoothly swarded . 
On the other side , pushing through the last fringe of evergreen , they blundered forth again into the open twilight of the grove . 
Stand ! cried a voice . 
Matcham stopped with a cry but Dick , without a pause , ran straight upon the forester , drawing his dagger as he went . 
The arrow went one way and the bow another with a sounding twang . 
The disarmed forester grappled his assailant but the dagger shone and descended twice . 
Then came a couple of groans , and then Dick rose to his feet again , and the man lay motionless , stabbed to the heart . 
On ! said Dick and he once more pelted forward , Matcham trailing in the rear . 
To say truth , they made but poor speed of it by now , labouring dismally as they ran , and catching for their breath like fish . 
Matcham had a cruel stitch , and his head swam and as for Dick , his knees were like lead . 
But they kept up the form of running with undiminished courage . 
Presently they came to the end of the grove . 
It stopped abruptly and there , a few yards before them , was the high road from Risingham to Shoreby , lying , at this point , between two even walls of forest . 
At the sight Dick paused and as soon as he stopped running , he became aware of a confused noise , which rapidly grew louder . 
They rode as for their lives , in complete disorder some of them were wounded riderless horses galloped at their side with bloody saddles . 
They were plainly fugitives from the great battle . 
Close after him there followed several baggage waggons , fleeing at an ungainly canter , the drivers flailing at the horses as if for life . 
These must have run early in the day but their cowardice was not to save them . 
Some leaped from their places and plunged into the wood the others he sabred as they sat , cursing them the while for cowards in a voice that was scarce human . 
He had meant to follow the highway till the turn for Holywood , and now he had to change his plan . 
But above all , he had recognised the colours of Earl Risingham , and he knew that the battle had gone finally against the rose of Lancaster . 
Come , he said , sternly and , turning on his heel , he began to walk forward through the grove , with Matcham limping in his rear . 
For some time they continued to thread the forest in silence . 
If there were anything to eat ! cried Dick , suddenly , pausing as he spoke . 
Matcham sat down and began to weep . 
Ye can weep for your own supper , but when it was to save men's lives , your heart was hard enough , said Dick , contemptuously . 
Y' 'ave seven deaths upon your conscience , Master John I'll ne'er forgive you that . 
Conscience ! cried Matcham , looking fiercely up . 
I ran me in upon his bow , he cried . 
It was a coward blow , returned Matcham . 
Marry ! he cried , and here is news ! Of any two the one will still be stronger . 
The better man throweth the worse , and the worse is well served . 
Ye deserve a belting , Master Matcham , for your ill guidance and unthankfulness to meward and what ye deserve ye shall have . 
And Dick , who , even in his angriest temper , still preserved the appearance of composure , began to unbuckle his belt . 
Here shall be your supper , he said , grimly . 
Matcham had stopped his tears he was as white as a sheet , but he looked Dick steadily in the face , and never moved . 
Dick took a step , swinging the belt . 
Then he paused , embarrassed by the large eyes and the thin , weary face of his companion . 
His courage began to subside . 
Say ye were in the wrong , then , he said , lamely . 
Nay , said Matcham , I was in the right . 
The strap fell by his side , and he stood irresolute , feeling like a fool . 
A plague upon thee , shrew ! he said . 
An ye be so feeble of hand , ye should keep the closer guard upon your tongue . 
But I'll be hanged before I beat you ! and he put on his belt again . 
Beat you I will not , he continued but forgive you ? never . 
Nay , by the mass ! the measure is filled , and runneth over . 
Let be , said Dick let be . 
Y' 'ave been ill nurtured , methinks , and yet ye have the makings of some good , and , beyond all question , saved me from the river . 
Nay , I had forgotten it I am as thankless as thyself . 
But , come , let us on . 
An we be for Holywood this night , ay , or to morrow early , we had best set forward speedily . 
But though Dick had talked himself back into his usual good humour , Matcham had forgiven him nothing . 
His violence , the recollection of the forester whom he had slain above all , the vision of the upraised belt , were things not easily to be forgotten . 
I will thank you , for the form's sake , said Matcham . 
But , in sooth , good Master Shelton , I had liever find my way alone . 
Here is a wide wood prithee , let each choose his path I owe you a dinner and a lesson . 
But Dick had not gone ten paces ere his name was called , and Matcham came running after . 
Dick , he said , it were unmannerly to part so coldly . 
Here is my hand , and my heart with it . 
For all that wherein you have so excellently served and helped me not for the form , but from the heart , I thank you . 
Well , lad , returned Dick , taking the hand which was offered him , good speed to you , if speed you may . 
But I misdoubt it shrewdly . 
So then they separated for the second time and presently it was Dick who was running after Matcham . 
Here , he said , take my cross bow shalt not go unarmed . 
A cross bow ! said Matcham . 
Nay , boy , I have neither the strength to bend nor yet the skill to aim with it . 
It were no help to me , good boy . 
But yet I thank you . 
The night had now fallen , and under the trees they could no longer read each other's face . 
I will go some little way with you , said Dick . 
I would fain leave you on a path , at least . 
My mind misgiveth me , y' are likely to be lost . 
Without any more words , he began to walk forward , and the other once more followed him . 
The blackness grew thicker and thicker . 
Only here and there , in open places , they saw the sky , dotted with small stars . 
In the distance , the noise of the rout of the Lancastrian army still continued to be faintly audible but with every step they left it farther in the rear . 
At the end of half an hour of silent progress they came forth upon a broad patch of heathy open . 
It glimmered in the light of the stars , shaggy with fern and islanded with clumps of yew . 
And here they paused and looked upon each other . 
Y' are weary ? Dick said . 
Nay , I am so weary , answered Matcham , that methinks I could lie down and die . 
I hear the chiding of a river , returned Dick . 
Let us go so far forth , for I am sore athirst . 
The ground sloped down gently and , sure enough , in the bottom , they found a little murmuring river , running among willows . 
Here they threw themselves down together by the brink and putting their mouths to the level of a starry pool , they drank their fill . 
Dick , said Matcham , it may not be . 
I saw a pit as we came down , said Dick . 
Let us lie down therein and sleep . 
Nay , but with all my heart ! cried Matcham . 
And soon sleep fell upon them like a cloud , and under the dew and stars they rested peacefully . 
Half starved and over weary as they were , they lay without moving , sunk in a delightful lassitude . 
And as they thus lay , the clang of a bell fell suddenly upon their ears . 
A bell ! said Dick , sitting up . 
Nay , what should this betoken ? said Dick , who was now broad awake . 
It is some one walking , returned Matcham , and the bell tolleth ever as he moves . 
I see that well , said Dick . 
But wherefore ? What maketh he in Tunstall Woods ? Jack , he added , laugh at me an ye will , but I like not the hollow sound of it . 
Nay , said Matcham , with a shiver , it hath a doleful note . 
It is as though the bearer had run for a pater noster while , and then leaped the river , Dick observed . 
And now beginneth he again to pace soberly forward , added Matcham . 
Nay , returned Dick nay , not so soberly , Jack . 
'Tis a man that walketh you right speedily . 
'Tis a man in some fear of his life , or about some hurried business . 
See ye not how swift the beating draweth near ? It is now close by , said Matcham . 
The daylight , which was very clear and grey , showed them a riband of white footpath wandering among the gorse . 
It passed some hundred yards from the pit , and ran the whole length of the clearing , east and west . 
By the line of its course , Dick judged it should lead more or less directly to the Moat House . 
Upon this path , stepping forth from the margin of the wood , a white figure now appeared . 
It paused a little , and seemed to look about and then , at a slow pace , and bent almost double , it began to draw near across the heath . 
At every step the bell clanked . 
Fear fell upon the lads , as cold as death . 
A leper ! said Dick , hoarsely . 
His touch is death , said Matcham . 
Not so , returned Dick . 
See ye not ? he is stone blind . 
He guideth him with a staff . 
Let us lie still the wind bloweth towards the path , and he will go by and hurt us not . 
Alas , poor soul , and we should rather pity him ! I will pity him when he is by , replied Matcham . 
The blind leper was now about halfway towards them , and just then the sun rose and shone full on his veiled face . 
He had been a tall man before he was bowed by his disgusting sickness , and even now he walked with a vigorous step . 
As he came about level with the pit , he paused , and turned his face full upon the lads . 
Mary be my shield ! He sees us ! said Matcham , faintly . 
He is blind , fool ! The leper looked or listened , whichever he was really doing , for some seconds . 
Then he began to move on again , but presently paused once more , and again turned and seemed to gaze upon the lads . 
Even Dick became dead white and closed his eyes , as if by the mere sight he might become infected . 
But soon the bell sounded , and this time , without any farther hesitation , the leper crossed the remainder of the little heath and disappeared into the covert of the woods . 
He saw us , said Matcham . 
I could swear it ! Tut ! returned Dick , recovering some sparks of courage . 
Dick , good Dick , he saw us , repeated Matcham . 
When a man hearkeneth , he doth not as this man he doth otherwise , Dick . 
This was seeing it was not hearing . 
Hark , else , if his bell be not stopped ! Such was the case . 
The bell rang no longer . 
Nay , said Dick , I like not that . 
Nay , he cried again , I like that little . 
What may this betoken ? Let us go , by the mass ! He hath gone east , added Matcham . 
Good Dick , let us go westward straight I shall not breathe till I have my back turned upon that leper . 
Jack , y' are too cowardly , replied Dick . 
We shall go fair for Holywood , or as fair , at least , as I can guide you , and that will be due north . 
They were afoot at once , passed the stream upon some stepping stones , and began to mount on the other side , which was steeper , towards the margin of the wood . 
The ground became very uneven , full of knolls and hollows trees grew scattered or in clumps . 
it became difficult to choose a path , and the lads somewhat wandered . 
They were weary , besides , with yesterday's exertions and the lack of food , and they moved but heavily and dragged their feet among the sand . 
His bell was silent , his staff no longer tapped the ground , and he went before him with the swift and assured footsteps of a man who sees . 
Next moment he had disappeared into a little thicket . 
The lads , at the first glimpse , had crouched behind a tuft of gorse there they lay , horror struck . 
Certain , he pursueth us , said Dick certain ! He held the clapper of his bell in one hand , saw ye ? that it should not sound . 
Now may the saints aid and guide us , for I have no strength to combat pestilence ! What maketh he ? cried Matcham . 
Nay , I care not , moaned Dick the strength is gone out of me my legs are like water . 
The saints be mine assistance ! Would ye lie there idle ? cried Matcham . 
Let us back into the open . 
We have the better chance he cannot steal upon us unawares . 
Not I , said Dick . 
My time is come , and peradventure he may pass us by . 
Bend me , then , your bow ! cried the other . 
What ! will ye be a man ? Dick crossed himself . 
Would ye have me shoot upon a leper ? he cried . 
The hand would fail me . 
Nay , now , he added nay , now , let be ! With sound men I will fight , but not with ghosts and lepers . 
Which this is , I wot not . 
Then came a single , broken jangle on the bell . 
He hath missed his hold upon the clapper , whispered Matcham . 
Saints ! how near he is ! But Dick answered never a word his teeth were near chattering . 
To their stretched senses , the whole bush appeared alive with rustlings and the creak of twigs and they heard the beating of each other's heart . 
Suddenly , with a cry , the leper sprang into the open close by , and ran straight upon the lads . 
They , shrieking aloud , separated and began to run different ways . 
But their horrible enemy fastened upon Matcham , ran him swiftly down , and had him almost instantly a prisoner . 
Dick heard the cry and turned . 
He saw Matcham fall and on the instant his spirit and his strength revived With a cry of pity and anger , he unslung and bent his arblast . 
But ere he had time to shoot , the leper held up his hand . 
Hold your shot , Dickon ! cried a familiar voice . 
Sir Daniel ! cried Dick . 
Ay , by the mass , Sir Daniel ! returned the knight . 
Know ye him not ? He said ye knew him ! Ay , replied Sir Daniel , I know the lad and he chuckled . 
Nay , sir , saving your respect , I had as lief 'a' met the devil in person and to speak truth , I am yet all a quake . 
But what made ye , sir , in such a guise ? Sir Daniel's brow grew suddenly black with anger . 
What made I ? he said . 
Ye do well to mind me of it ! What ? I skulked for my poor life in my own wood of Tunstall , Dick . 
We were ill sped at the battle we but got there to be swept among the rout . 
There is no disguise to be compared with it the jingle of this bell would scare me the stoutest outlaw in the forest they would all turn pale to hear it . 
At length I came by you and Matcham . 
I could see but evilly through this same hood , and was not sure of you , being chiefly , and for many a good cause , astonished at the finding you together . 
Moreover , in the open , where I had to go slowly and tap with my staff , I feared to disclose myself . 
But see , he added , this poor shrew begins a little to revive . 
A little good canary will comfort me the heart of it . 
What cheer , Jack ! said Dick . 
It was no leper , after all it was Sir Daniel ! See ! Swallow me a good draught of this , said the knight . 
This will give you manhood . 
Thereafter , I will give you both a meal , and we shall all three on to Tunstall . 
But I be not yet shent . 
Some of my lads will pick me their way home . 
Hatch hath ten fellows Selden , he had six . 
Selden , Dick faltered Selden And he paused again . 
Sir Daniel put down the wine untasted . 
How ! he cried , in a changed voice . 
Selden ? Speak ! What of Selden ? Dick stammered forth the tale of the ambush and the massacre . 
The knight heard in silence but as he listened , his countenance became convulsed with rage and grief . 
Eat ! he cried , suddenly . 
And you here , he added to Matcham , swear me an oath to follow straight to the Moat House . 
I will pledge mine honour , replied Matcham . 
What make I with your honour ? cried the knight . 
Swear me upon your mother's welfare ! Matcham gave the required oath and Sir Daniel re adjusted the hood over his face , and prepared his bell and staff . 
To see him once more in that appalling travesty somewhat revived the horror of his two companions . 
But the knight was soon upon his feet . 
Eat with despatch , he said , and follow me yarely to mine house . 
And so ye go to Tunstall ? Dick inquired . 
Yea , verily , said Matcham , when needs must ! I am braver behind Sir Daniel's back than to his face . 
Two hours later , they began to descend upon the other side , and already , among the tree tops , saw before them the red walls and roofs of Tunstall House . 
Here , said Matcham , pausing , ye shall take your leave of your friend Jack , whom y' are to see no more . 
Come , Dick , forgive him what he did amiss , as he , for his part , cheerfully and lovingly forgiveth you . 
And wherefore so ? asked Dick . 
An we both go to Tunstall , I shall see you yet again , I trow , and that right often . 
And , Dick , continued Matcham , my spirit bodeth ill . 
Even as they appeared , the doors were opened , the bridge lowered , and Sir Daniel himself , with Hatch and the parson at his side , stood ready to receive them . 
BOOK II THE MOAT HOUSE CHAPTER I DICK ASKS QUESTIONS The Moat House stood not far from the rough forest road . 
Externally , it was a compact rectangle of red stone , flanked at each corner by a round tower , pierced for archery and battlemented at the top . 
Within , it enclosed a narrow court . 
The moat was perhaps twelve feet wide , crossed by a single drawbridge . 
It was supplied with water by a trench , leading to a forest pool and commanded , through its whole length , from the battlements of the two southern towers . 
Except that one or two tall and thick trees had been suffered to remain within half a bowshot of the walls , the house was in a good posture for defence . 
In the court , Dick found a part of the garrison , busy with preparations for defence , and gloomily discussing the chances of a siege . 
Some were making arrows , some sharpening swords that had long been disused but even as they worked , they shook their heads . 
Twelve of Sir Daniel's party had escaped the battle , run the gauntlet through the wood , and come alive to the Moat House . 
But out of this dozen , three had been gravely wounded two at Risingham in the disorder of the rout , one by John Amend All's marksmen as he crossed the forest . 
This raised the force of the garrison , counting Hatch , Sir Daniel , and young Shelton , to twenty two effective men . 
And more might be continually expected to arrive . 
The danger lay not therefore in the lack of men . 
It was the terror of the Black Arrow that oppressed the spirits of the garrison . 
For their open foes of the party of York , in these most changing times , they felt but a far away concern . 
The world , as people said in those days , might change again before harm came . 
But for their neighbours in the wood , they trembled . 
It was not Sir Daniel alone who was a mark for hatred . 
His men , conscious of impunity , had carried themselves cruelly through all the country . 
Nor had there been lacking grisly advertisements of what they might expect . 
At different periods of the evening and the night , no fewer than seven riderless horses had come neighing in terror to the gate . 
Two were from Selden's troop five belonged to men who had ridden with Sir Daniel to the field . 
Nay , Master Shelton , said Hatch , at last nay , but what said I ? We shall all go . 
Selden was a man of his hands he was like a brother to me . 
Well , he has gone second well , we shall all follow ! For what said their knave rhyme ? 'A black arrow in each black heart . 
Was it not so it went ? Appleyard , Selden , Smith , old Humphrey gone and there lieth poor John Carter , crying , poor sinner , for the priest . 
Out of a low window , hard by where they were talking , groans and murmurs came to his ear . 
Lieth he there ? he asked . 
Ay , in the second porter's chamber , answered Hatch . 
We could not bear him further , soul and body were so bitterly at odds . 
At every step we lifted him , he thought to wend . 
But now , methinks , it is the soul that suffereth . 
Ever for the priest he crieth , and Sir Oliver , I wot not why , still cometh not . 
'Twill be a long shrift but poor Appleyard and poor Selden , they had none . 
Dick stooped to the window and looked in . 
The little cell was low and dark , but he could make out the wounded soldier lying moaning on his pallet . 
Carter , poor friend , how goeth it ? he asked . 
Master Shelton , returned the man , in an excited whisper , for the dear light of heaven , bring the priest . 
Alack , I am sped I am brought very low down my hurt is to the death . 
Ye may do me no more service this shall be the last . 
Now , for my poor soul's interest , and as a loyal gentleman , bestir you for I have that matter on my conscience that shall drag me deep . 
He groaned , and Dick heard the grating of his teeth , whether in pain or terror . 
Just then Sir Daniel appeared upon the threshold of the hall . 
He had a letter in one hand . 
Lads , he said , we have had a shog , we have had a tumble wherefore , then , deny it ? Rather it imputeth to get speedily again to saddle . 
This old Harry the Sixt has had the undermost . 
Wash we , then , our hands of him . 
I have a good friend that rideth next the duke , the Lord of Wensleydale . 
Well , I have writ a letter to my friend , praying his good lordship , and offering large satisfaction for the past and reasonable surety for the future . 
Doubt not but he will lend a favourable ear . 
A prayer without gifts is like a song without music I surfeit him with promises , boys I spare not to promise . 
What , then , is lacking ? Nay , a great thing wherefore should I deceive you ? a great thing and a difficult a messenger to bear it . 
The woods y' are not ignorant of that lie thick with our ill willers . 
Haste is most needful but without sleight and caution all is naught . 
Which , then , of this company will take me this letter , bear me it to my Lord of Wensleydale , and bring me the answer back ? One man instantly arose . 
I will , an't like you , said he . 
I will even risk my carcase . 
Nay , Dicky Bowyer , not so , returned the knight . 
Y' are sly indeed , but not speedy . 
Ye were a laggard ever . 
An't be so , Sir Daniel , here am I , cried another . 
The saints forfend ! said the knight . 
Y' are speedy , but not sly . 
Ye would blunder me headforemost into John Amend All's camp . 
I thank you both for your good courage but , in sooth , it may not be . 
Then Hatch offered himself , and he also was refused . 
Now , he said , upon your good speed and better discretion we do all depend . 
Bring me a good answer back , and before three weeks , I will have purged my forest of these vagabonds that brave us to our faces . 
But mark it well , Throgmorton the matter is not easy . 
Ye must steal forth under night , and go like a fox and how ye are to cross Till I know not , neither by the bridge nor ferry . 
I can swim , returned Throgmorton . 
I will come soundly , fear not . 
Well , friend , get ye to the buttery , replied Sir Daniel . 
Ye shall swim first of all in nut brown ale . 
And with that he turned back into the hall . 
Sir Daniel hath a wise tongue , said Hatch , aside , to Dick . 
See , now , where many a lesser man had glossed the matter over , he speaketh it out plainly to his company . 
Here is a danger , 'a saith , and here difficulty and jesteth in the very saying . 
Nay , by Saint Barbary , he is a born captain ! Not a man but he is some deal heartened up ! See how they fall again to work . 
This praise of Sir Daniel put a thought in the lad's head . 
Bennet , he said , how came my father by his end ? Ask me not that , replied Hatch . 
I had no hand nor knowledge in it furthermore , I will even be silent , Master Dick . 
For look you , in a man's own business there he may speak but of hearsay matters and of common talk , not so . 
Ask me Sir Oliver ay , or Carter , if ye will not me . 
And Hatch set off to make the rounds , leaving Dick in a muse . 
Wherefore would he not tell me ? thought the lad . 
And wherefore named he Carter ? Carter nay , then Carter had a hand in it , perchance . 
He entered the house , and passing some little way along a flagged and vaulted passage , came to the door of the cell where the hurt man lay groaning . 
At his entrance Carter started eagerly . 
Have ye brought the priest ? he cried . 
Not yet awhile , returned Dick . 
Y' 'ave a word to tell me first . 
How came my father , Harry Shelton , by his death ? The man's face altered instantly . 
I know not , he replied , doggedly . 
Nay , ye know well , returned Dick . 
Seek not to put me by . 
I tell you I know not , repeated Carter . 
Then , said Dick , ye shall die unshriven . 
Here am I , and here shall stay . 
There shall no priest come near you , rest assured . 
For of what avail is penitence , an ye have no mind to right those wrongs ye had a hand in ? and without penitence , confession is but mockery . 
Ye say what ye mean not , Master Dick , said Carter , composedly . 
And for as little as it commends you , it shall serve you less . 
Stay , an ye please . 
Ye will condemn my soul ye shall learn nothing ! There is my last word to you . 
And the wounded man turned upon the other side . 
Now , Dick , to say truth , had spoken hastily , and was ashamed of his threat . 
But he made one more effort . 
Carter , he said , mistake me not . 
I know ye were but an instrument in the hands of others a churl must obey his lord I would not bear heavily on such an one . 
But I begin to learn upon many sides that this great duty lieth on my youth and ignorance , to avenge my father . 
Prithee , then , good Carter , set aside the memory of my threatenings , and in pure goodwill and honest penitence give me a word of help . 
The wounded man lay silent nor , say what Dick pleased , could he extract another word from him . 
And yet , he thought , of what use is courage without wit ? Had his hands been clean , he would have spoken his silence did confess the secret louder than words . 
Nay , upon all sides , proof floweth on me . 
Sir Daniel , he or his men , hath done this thing . 
Dick paused in the stone passage with a heavy heart . 
Pray Heaven he be innocent ! he said . 
And then steps sounded on the flagging , and Sir Oliver came gravely towards the lad . 
One seeketh you earnestly , said Dick . 
I am upon the way , good Richard , said the priest . 
It is this poor Carter . 
Alack , he is beyond cure . 
And yet his soul is sicker than his body , answered Dick . 
Have ye seen him ? asked Sir Oliver , with a manifest start . 
I do but come from him , replied Dick . 
What said he ? what said he ? snapped the priest , with extraordinary eagerness . 
He but cried for you the more piteously , Sir Oliver . 
It were well done to go the faster , for his hurt is grievous , returned the lad . 
I am straight for him , was the reply . 
Well , we have all our sins . 
We must all come to our latter day , good Richard . 
Ay , sir and it were well if we all came fairly , answered Dick . 
The priest dropped his eyes , and with an inaudible benediction hurried on . 
He smiled at the remembrance of his strange companion , and then wondered where he was . 
Ever since they had come together to the doors of the Moat House the younger lad had disappeared , and Dick began to weary for a word with him . 
About an hour after , mass being somewhat hastily run through by Sir Oliver , the company gathered in the hall for dinner . 
Neither Sir Daniel nor his lady made their appearance . 
Sir Oliver himself was absent , and here again there was no word of Matcham . 
Dick began to grow alarmed , to recall his companion's melancholy forebodings , and to wonder to himself if any foul play had befallen him in that house . 
After dinner he found Goody Hatch , who was hurrying to my Lady Brackley . 
Goody , he said , where is Master Matcham , I prithee ? I saw ye go in with him when we arrived . 
The old woman laughed aloud . 
Ah , Master Dick , she said , y' have a famous bright eye in your head , to be sure ! and laughed again . 
Nay , but where is he , indeed ? persisted Dick . 
Ye will never see him more , she returned never . 
An I do not , returned the lad , I will know the reason why . 
He came not hither of his full free will such as I am , I am his best protector , and I will see him justly used . 
There be too many mysteries I do begin to weary of the game ! But as Dick was speaking , a heavy hand fell on his shoulder . 
It was Bennet Hatch that had come unperceived behind him . 
With a jerk of his thumb , the retainer dismissed his wife . 
Y' have questioned me y' have baited Carter y' have frighted the Jack priest with hints . 
Bear ye more wisely , fool and even now , when Sir Daniel calleth you , show me a smooth face for the love of wisdom . 
Y' are to be sharply questioned . 
Hatch , returned Dick , in all this I smell a guilty conscience . 
An ye go not the wiser , ye will soon smell blood , replied Bennet . 
I do but warn you . 
And here cometh one to call you . 
And indeed , at that very moment , a messenger came across the court to summon Dick into the presence of Sir Daniel . 
CHAPTER II THE TWO OATHS Sir Daniel was in the hall there he paced angrily before the fire , awaiting Dick's arrival . 
None was by except Sir Oliver , and he sat discreetly backward , thumbing and muttering over his breviary . 
Y' have sent for me , Sir Daniel ? said young Shelton . 
I have sent for you , indeed , replied the knight . 
But you , Dick , y' are a fair day friend , it seemeth , and now seek to clear yourself of your allegiance . 
An't please you , Sir Daniel , not so , returned Dick , firmly . 
I am grateful and faithful , where gratitude and faith are due . 
It is well , said Sir Daniel and then , rising into anger Gratitude and faith are words , Dick Shelton , he continued but I look to deeds . 
If ye have aught against me , stand forth and say it . 
Sir , replied Dick , my father fell when I was yet a child . 
It hath come to mine ears that he was foully done by . 
It hath come to mine ears for I will not dissemble that ye had a hand in his undoing . 
And in all verity , I shall not be at peace in mine own mind , nor very clear to help you , till I have certain resolution of these doubts . 
Sir Daniel sat down in a deep settle . 
He took his chin in his hand and looked at Dick fixedly . 
And ye think I would be guardian to the man's son that I had murdered ? he asked . 
Nay , said Dick , pardon me if I answer churlishly but indeed ye know right well a wardship is most profitable . 
Pardon me again but if ye were base enough to slay a man under trust , here were , perhaps , reasons enough to move you to the lesser baseness . 
When I was lad of your years , returned Sir Daniel , sternly , my mind had not so turned upon suspicions . 
It is well known this priest is but your instrument . 
I speak very freely the time is not for courtesies . 
Even as I speak , so would I be answered . 
And answer get I none ! Ye but put more questions . 
I rede ye be ware , Sir Daniel for in this way ye will but nourish and not satisfy my doubts . 
I will answer you fairly , Master Richard , said the knight . 
Were I to pretend ye have not stirred my wrath , I were no honest man . 
But I will be just even in anger . 
Come to me with these words when y' are grown and come to man's estate , and I am no longer your guardian , and so helpless to resent them . 
Come to me then , and I will answer you as ye merit , with a buffet in the mouth . 
The spirit with which these words were uttered , the looks with which they were accompanied , staggered Dick and yet he could not but observe that he had got no answer . 
I desire nothing more earnestly , Sir Daniel , than to believe you , he replied . 
Assure me ye are free from this . 
Will ye take my word of honour , Dick ? inquired the knight . 
That would I , answered the lad . 
I give it you , returned Sir Daniel . 
He extended his hand , and Dick took it eagerly . 
Neither of them observed the priest , who , at the pronunciation of that solemn and false oath , had half arisen from his seat in an agony of horror and remorse . 
Ah , cried Dick , ye must find it in your great heartedness to pardon me ! I was a churl , indeed , to doubt of you . 
But ye have my hand upon it I will doubt no more . 
Nay , Dick , replied Sir Daniel , y' are forgiven . 
Ye know not the world and its calumnious nature . 
I was the more to blame , added Dick , in that the rogues pointed , not directly at yourself , but at Sir Oliver . 
As he spoke , he turned towards the priest , and paused in the middle of the last word . 
Sir Daniel was by him in two strides , and shook him fiercely by the shoulder . 
At the same moment Dick's suspicions reawakened . 
Nay , he said , Sir Oliver may swear also . 
He shall swear , said the knight . 
Sir Oliver speechlessly waved his arms . 
Ay , by the mass ! but ye shall swear , cried Sir Daniel , beside himself with fury . 
Here , upon this book , ye shall swear , he continued , picking up the breviary , which had fallen to the ground . 
What ! Ye make me doubt you ! Swear , I say swear ! But the priest was still incapable of speech . 
His terror of Sir Daniel , his terror of perjury , risen to about an equal height , strangled him . 
The sentries were all on the alert . 
The sun shone quietly on green lawns dotted with trees , and on the wooded hills of the forest which enclosed the view . 
There was no sign of a besieger . 
Whence came that shot ? asked the knight . 
From yonder clump , Sir Daniel , returned a sentinel . 
The knight stood a little , musing . 
Then he turned to Dick . 
Dick , he said , keep me an eye upon these men I leave you in charge here . 
As for the priest , he shall clear himself , or I will know the reason why . 
I do almost begin to share in your suspicions . 
He shall swear , trust me , or we shall prove him guilty . 
Dick answered somewhat coldly , and the knight , giving him a piercing glance , hurriedly returned to the hall . 
His first glance was for the arrow . 
It was the first of these missiles he had seen , and as he turned it to and fro , the dark hue of it touched him with some fear . 
Again there was some writing one word Earthed . 
Ay , he broke out , they know I am home , then . 
Earthed ! Ay , but there is not a dog among them fit to dig me out . 
Sir Oliver had come to himself , and now scrambled to his feet . 
Alack , Sir Daniel ! he moaned , y' 'ave sworn a dread oath y' are doomed to the end of time . 
Ay , returned the knight , I have sworn an oath , indeed , thou chucklehead but thyself shalt swear a greater . 
It shall be on the blessed cross of Holywood . 
Look to it get the words ready . 
It shall be sworn to night . 
But if y' are in any sense bent upon wisdom , hear me . 
This lad beginneth to irk me like a wasp . 
I have a need for him , for I would sell his marriage . 
But I tell you , in all plainness , if that he continue to weary me , he shall go join his father . 
I give orders now to change him to the chamber above the chapel . 
If that ye stammer or blench , or anyways boggle at the swearing , he will not believe you and by the mass , he shall die . 
There is for your thinking on . 
The chamber above the chapel ! gasped the priest . 
That same , replied the knight . 
Have ye chosen ? Say ! I have chosen , said the priest . 
Heaven pardon me , I will do evil for good . 
I will swear for the lad's sake . 
So is it best ! said Sir Daniel . 
Send for him , then , speedily . 
Ye shall see him alone . 
Yet I shall have an eye on you . 
I shall be here in the panel room . 
The knight raised the arras and let it fall again behind him . 
There was the sound of a spring opening then followed the creaking of trod stairs . 
Sir Oliver , left alone , cast a timorous glance upward at the arras covered wall , and crossed himself with every appearance of terror and contrition . 
Nay , if he is in the chapel room , the priest murmured , were it at my soul's cost , I must save him . 
Three minutes later , Dick , who had been summoned by another messenger , found Sir Oliver standing by the hall table , resolute and pale . 
Richard Shelton , he said , ye have required an oath from me . 
I might complain , I might deny you but my heart is moved toward you for the past , and I will even content you as ye choose . 
By the true cross of Holywood , I did not slay your father . 
Sir Oliver , returned Dick , when first we read John Amend All's paper , I was convinced of so much . 
But suffer me to put two questions . 
Ye did not slay him granted . 
But had ye no hand in it ? None , said Sir Oliver . 
Dick regarded him in wonder then he turned and looked all about him at the empty hall . 
What make ye ? he inquired . 
Why , naught , returned the priest , hastily smoothing his countenance . 
I make naught I do but suffer I am sick . 
I I prithee , Dick , I must begone . 
On the true cross of Holywood , I am clean innocent alike of violence or treachery . 
Content ye , good lad . 
Farewell ! And he made his escape from the apartment with unusual alacrity . 
Dick remained rooted to the spot , his eyes wandering about the room , his face a changing picture of various emotions , wonder , doubt , suspicion , and amusement . 
Gradually , as his mind grew clearer , suspicion took the upper hand , and was succeeded by certainty of the worst . 
He raised his head , and , as he did so , violently started . 
High upon the wall there was the figure of a savage hunter woven in the tapestry . 
With one hand he held a horn to his mouth in the other he brandished a stout spear . 
His face was dark , for he was meant to represent an African . 
Now , here was what had startled Richard Shelton . 
In this light the figure of the black hunter had winked at him with a white eyelid . 
He continued staring at the eye . 
The light shone upon it like a gem it was liquid , it was alive . 
Again the white eyelid closed upon it for a fraction of a second , and the next moment it was gone . 
There could be no mistake . 
The live eye that had been watching him through a hole in the tapestry was gone . 
The firelight no longer shone on a reflecting surface . 
And instantly Dick awoke to the terrors of his position . 
Hatch's warning , the mute signals of the priest , this eye that had observed him from the wall , ran together in his mind . 
He saw he had been put upon his trial , that he had once more betrayed his suspicions , and that , short of some miracle , he was lost . 
A new chamber ? he repeated . 
Wherefore so ? What chamber ? 'Tis one above the chapel , answered the messenger . 
It hath stood long empty , said Dick , musing . 
What manner of room is it ? Nay , a brave room , returned the man . 
But yet lowering his voice they call it haunted . 
Haunted ? repeated Dick , with a chill . 
I have not heard of it . 
Nay , then , and by whom ? The messenger looked about him and then , in a low whisper , By the sacrist of St . 
They had him there to sleep one night , and in the morning whew ! he was gone . 
The devil had taken him , they said the more betoken , he had drunk late the night before . 
Dick followed the man with black forebodings . 
CHAPTER III THE ROOM OVER THE CHAPEL From the battlements nothing further was observed . 
The sun journeyed westward , and at last went down but , to the eyes of all these eager sentinels , no living thing appeared in the neighbourhood of Tunstall House . 
When the night was at length fairly come , Throgmorton was led to a room overlooking an angle of the moat . 
For some half hour Sir Daniel and Hatch stood eagerly giving ear but all remained quiet . 
The messenger had got away in safety . 
Sir Daniel's brow grew clearer . 
Bennet , he said , this John Amend All is no more than a man , ye see . 
All that time he had seen no more of Sir Oliver , and nothing of Matcham and yet both the priest and the young lad ran continually in his mind . 
It was now his chief purpose to escape from Tunstall Moat House as speedily as might be and yet , before he went , he desired a word with both of these . 
At length , with a lamp in one hand , he mounted to his new apartment . 
It was large , low , and somewhat dark . 
The window looked upon the moat , and although it was so high up , it was heavily barred . 
The bed was luxurious , with one pillow of down and one of lavender , and a red coverlet worked in a pattern of roses . 
All about the walls were cupboards , locked and padlocked , and concealed from view by hangings of dark coloured arras . 
Dick made the round , lifting the arras , sounding the panels , seeking vainly to open the cupboards . 
He assured himself that the door was strong and the bolt solid then he set down his lamp upon a bracket , and once more looked all around . 
For what reason had he been given this chamber ? It was larger and finer than his own . 
Could it conceal a snare ? Was there a secret entrance ? Was it , indeed , haunted ? His blood ran a little chilly in his veins . 
Immediately over him the heavy foot of a sentry trod the leads . 
Below him , he knew , was the arched roof of the chapel and next to the chapel was the hall . 
Certainly there was a secret passage in the hall the eye that had watched him from the arras gave him proof of that . 
He made his weapons ready , and took his position in a corner of the room behind the door . 
If ill was intended , he would sell his life dear . 
The sound of many feet , the challenge , and the password , sounded overhead along the battlements the watch was being changed . 
He was very pale , and carried a lamp in one hand and a drawn dagger in the other . 
Shut me the door , he whispered . 
Swift , Dick ! This house is full of spies I hear their feet follow me in the corridors I hear them breathe behind the arras . 
Well , content you , returned Dick , it is closed . 
We are safe for this while , if there be safety anywhere within these walls . 
But my heart is glad to see you . 
By the mass , lad , I thought ye were sped ! Where hid ye ? It matters not , returned Matcham . 
Since we be met , it matters not . 
But , Dick , are your eyes open ? Have they told you of to morrow's doings ? Not they , replied Dick . 
I had the proof of it I have heard them whisper nay , they as good as told me . 
Ay , returned Dick , is it so ? I had thought as much . 
And he told him the day's occurrences at length . 
When it was done , Matcham arose and began , in turn , to examine the apartment . 
No , he said , there is no entrance visible . 
Yet 'tis a pure certainty there is one . 
Dick , I will stay by you . 
An y' are to die , I will die with you . 
And he grasped the other's hand in silence . 
I will tell you , he resumed . 
There is a window , out of which the messenger descended the rope should still be in the chamber . 
There was a sound below the floor then it paused , and then began again . 
Some one walketh in the room below , whispered Matcham . 
Nay , returned Dick , there is no room below we are above the chapel . 
It is my murderer in the secret passage . 
Well , let him come it shall go hard with him and he ground his teeth . 
Blow me the lights out , said the other . 
Perchance he will betray himself . 
They blew out both the lamps and lay still as death . 
The footfalls underneath were very soft , but they were clearly audible . 
Several times they came and went and then there was a loud jar of a key turning in a lock , followed by a considerable silence . 
Presently the steps began again , and then , all of a sudden , a chink of light appeared in the planking of the room in a far corner . 
It widened a trap door was being opened , letting in a gush of light . 
They could see the strong hand pushing it up and Dick raised his cross bow , waiting for the head to follow . 
But now there came an interruption . 
From a distant corner of the Moat House shouts began to be heard , and first one voice , and then several , crying aloud upon a name . 
Here was a moment's respite . 
Dick breathed deep , and then , and not till then , he gave ear to the disturbance which had interrupted the attack , and which was now rather increasing than diminishing . 
All about the Moat House feet were running , doors were opening and slamming , and still the voice of Sir Daniel towered above all this bustle , shouting for Joanna . 
Why , who the murrain should this be ? Here is no Joanna , nor ever hath been . 
What meaneth it ? Matcham was silent . 
He seemed to have drawn further away . 
But only a little faint starlight entered by the window , and at the far end of the apartment , where the pair were , the darkness was complete . 
Jack , said Dick , I wot not where ye were all day . 
Saw ye this Joanna ? Nay , returned Matcham , I saw her not . 
Nor heard tell of her ? he pursued . 
Sir Daniel was still roaring the name of Joanna from the courtyard . 
Did ye hear of her ? repeated Dick . 
I heard of her , said Matcham . 
How your voice twitters ! What aileth you ? said Dick . 
Tis a most excellent good fortune , this Joanna it will take their minds from us . 
Dick , cried Matcham , I am lost we are both lost . 
Let us flee if there be yet time . 
They will not rest till they have found me . 
Or , see ! let me go forth when they have found me , ye may flee . 
Let me forth , Dick good Dick , let me away ! She was groping for the bolt , when Dick at last comprehended . 
Dick , too , was silent for a little then he spoke again . 
Come , he said , speak up , Jack . 
But now that I think , how found ye my chamber ? I asked it of Dame Hatch , she answered . 
Well , the dame's staunch , he answered she'll not tell upon you . 
We have time before us . 
And just then , as if to contradict his words , feet came down the corridor , and a fist beat roughly on the door . 
Here ! cried a voice . 
Open , Master Dick open ! Dick neither moved nor answered . 
It is all over , said the girl and she put her arms about Dick's neck . 
One after another , men came trooping to the door . 
Then Sir Daniel arrived himself , and there was a sudden cessation of the noise . 
Dick , cried the knight , be not an ass . 
The Seven Sleepers had been awake ere now . 
We know she is within there . 
Open , then , the door , man . 
Down with it , said Sir Daniel . 
And immediately his followers fell savagely upon the door with foot and fist . 
Solid as it was , and strongly bolted , it would soon have given way but once more fortune interfered . 
Over the thunderstorm of blows the cry of a sentinel was heard it was followed by another shouts ran along the battlements , shouts answered out of the wood . 
In the first moment of alarm it sounded as if the foresters were carrying the Moat House by assault . 
And Sir Daniel and his men , desisting instantly from their attack upon Dick's chamber , hurried to defend the walls . 
Now , cried Dick , we are saved . 
He seized the great old bedstead with both hands , and bent himself in vain to move it . 
For your life's sake , help me stoutly ! he cried . 
Between them , with a huge effort , they dragged the big frame of oak across the room , and thrust it endwise to the chamber door . 
Ye do but make things worse , said Joanna , sadly . 
He will then enter by the trap . 
Not so , replied Dick . 
He durst not tell his secret to so many . 
It is by the trap that we shall flee . 
Hark ! The attack is over . 
Nay , it was none ! It had , indeed , been no attack it was the arrival of another party of stragglers from the defeat of Risingham that had disturbed Sir Daniel . 
He will return anon , said Dick . 
To the trap ! He lighted a lamp , and they went together into the corner of the room . 
The trap moved , gaped a little , and at length came widely open . 
Seizing it with their hands , the two young folk threw it back . 
It disclosed a few steps descending , and at the foot of them , where the would be murderer had left it , a burning lamp . 
Now , said Dick , go first and take the lamp . 
I will follow to close the trap . 
So they descended one after the other , and as Dick lowered the trap , the blows began once again to thunder on the panels of the door . 
CHAPTER IV THE PASSAGE The passage in which Dick and Joanna now found themselves was narrow , dirty , and short . 
At the other end of it , a door stood partly open the same door , without doubt , that they had heard the man unlocking . 
Heavy cobwebs hung from the roof and the paved flooring echoed hollow under the lightest tread . 
Beyond the door there were two branches , at right angles . 
Dick chose one of them at random , and the pair hurried , with echoing footsteps , along the hollow of the chapel roof . 
The top of the arched ceiling rose like a whale's back in the dim glimmer of the lamp . 
At the other end , they descended a few steps . 
These were certainly some of the late arrivals . 
Here is no help , said Dick . 
Nay , said Joanna maybe the passage goeth farther . 
They retraced their steps with all imaginable speed , and set forward to explore the other branch . 
We must be in the dungeons , Dick remarked . 
And still there is no outlet , added Joanna . 
Nay , but an outlet there must be ! Dick answered . 
Presently , sure enough , they came to a sharp angle , and then the passage ended in a flight of steps . 
On the top of that there was a solid flag of stone by way of trap , and to this they both set their backs . 
Some one holdeth it , suggested Joanna . 
Not so , said Dick for were a man strong as ten , he must still yield a little . 
But this resisteth like dead rock . 
There is a weight upon the trap . 
Here is no issue and , by my sooth , good Jack , we are here as fairly prisoners as though the gyves were on our ankle bones . 
Sit ye then down , and let us talk . 
After a while we shall return , when perchance they shall be less carefully upon their guard and , who knoweth ? we may break out and stand a chance . 
But , in my poor opinion , we are as good as shent . 
Dick ! she cried , alas the day that ever ye should have seen me ! For like a most unhappy and unthankful maid , it is I have led you hither . 
What cheer ! returned Dick . 
It was all written , and that which is written , willy nilly , cometh still to pass . 
I am an orphan , like yourself , of father and mother , said Joanna and for my great misfortune , Dick , and hitherto for yours , I am a rich marriage . 
My Lord Foxham had me to ward yet it appears Sir Daniel bought the marriage of me from the king , and a right dear price he paid for it . 
And then the world changed again , and Lord Foxham bought my marriage over Sir Daniel's and from then to now it went on ill betwixt the two of them . 
But still Lord Foxham kept me in his hands , and was a good lord to me . 
And at last I was to be married or sold , if ye like it better . 
Five hundred pounds Lord Foxham was to get for me . 
Hamley was the groom's name , and to morrow , Dick , of all days in the year , was I to be betrothed . 
Ay ! cried Dick , and so ye loved this Hamley ! Nay , replied Joanna , not I. I did but hate Sir Daniel . 
And if , by cruel destiny , it may not be , still ye'll be dear to me . 
While my heart beats , it'll be true to you . 
And I , said Dick , that never cared a straw for any manner of woman until now , I took to you when I thought ye were a boy . 
I had a pity to you , and knew not why . 
When I would have belted you , the hand failed me . 
But when ye owned ye were a maid , Jack for still I will call you Jack I made sure ye were the maid for me . 
Hark ! he said , breaking off one cometh . 
And indeed a heavy tread was now audible in the echoing passage , and the rats again fled in armies . 
The sudden turn gave him a post of vantage . 
He could thus shoot in safety from the cover of the wall . 
Presently , at the far end of the passage , Bennet hove in sight . 
He seemed to be alone , and he carried in his hand a burning torch , which made him the better mark . 
Stand , Bennet ! cried Dick . 
Another step , and y' are dead . 
So here ye are , returned Hatch , peering forward into the darkness . 
Aha ! y' 'ave done wisely , Dick y' 'ave put your lamp before you . 
Here , where I am , I stay . 
Let Sir Daniel get me out if he be able ! Hatch was silent for a space . 
But you , if ye are no fool , had best be gone ere I return . 
I would be gone already , an' I wist how . 
I cannot move the trap . 
Put me your hand into the corner , and see what ye find there , replied Bennet . 
Throgmorton's rope is still in the brown chamber . 
And Hatch , turning upon his heel , disappeared again into the windings of the passage . 
Dick instantly returned for his lamp , and proceeded to act upon the hint . 
At one corner of the trap there was a deep cavity in the wall . 
Pushing his arm into the aperture , Dick found an iron bar , which he thrust vigorously upwards . 
There followed a snapping noise , and the slab of stone instantly started in its bed . 
They were free of the passage . 
A torch or two , each stuck in an iron ring against the wall , changefully lit up the scene . 
CHAPTER V HOW DICK CHANGED SIDES Dick , blowing out his lamp lest it should attract attention , led the way up stairs and along the corridor . 
In the brown chamber the rope had been made fast to the frame of an exceeding heavy and ancient bed . 
It had not been detached , and Dick , taking the coil to the window , began to lower it slowly and cautiously into the darkness of the night . 
Joan stood by but as the rope lengthened , and still Dick continued to pay it out , extreme fear began to conquer her resolution . 
Dick , she said , is it so deep ? I may not essay it . 
I should infallibly fall , good Dick . 
It was just at the delicate moment of the operations that she spoke . 
Dick started the remainder of the coil slipped from his grasp , and the end fell with a splash into the moat . 
Instantly , from the battlement above , the voice of a sentinel cried , Who goes ? A murrain ! cried Dick . 
We are paid now ! Down with you take the rope . 
I cannot , she cried , recoiling . 
An ye cannot , no more can I , said Shelton . 
How can I swim the moat without you ? Do you desert me , then ? Dick , she gasped , I cannot . 
The strength is gone from me . 
Before he could shoot the bolt , strong arms were thrusting it back upon him from the other side . 
He struggled for a second then , feeling himself overpowered , ran back to the window . 
At the same moment the men who had forced the door against him laid hold upon him . 
The air roared in his ears he saw the stars overhead , and the reflected stars below him in the moat , whirling like dead leaves before the tempest . 
And then he lost hold , and fell , and soused head over ears into the icy water . 
When he came to the surface his hand encountered the rope , which , newly lightened of his weight , was swinging wildly to and fro . 
There was a red glow overhead , and looking up , he saw , by the light of several torches and a cresset full of burning coals , the battlements lined with faces . 
He saw the men's eyes turning hither and thither in quest of him but he was too far below , the light reached him not , and they looked in vain . 
In this way he got much more than halfway over indeed the bank was almost within reach , before the rope began to draw him back by its own weight . 
But all this had not been done without a considerable splashing , which had so far indicated his position to the men along the battlements . 
It had served its purpose . 
An arrow struck him in the shoulder , another grazed his head . 
He leaned against a tree , streaming with blood and water , bruised , wounded , alone , and unarmed . 
Sir Daniel was cruel , but he was not likely to be cruel to a young gentlewoman who had other protectors , willing and able to bring him to account . 
It was more probable he would make haste to marry her to some friend of his own . 
In the meanwhile , here he was in a sore plight . 
When he awoke from something betwixt sleep and swooning , the grey of the morning had begun to take the place of night . 
The progressive brightening of the day and the return of his own senses at last enabled him to recognise the object . 
It was a man hanging from the bough of a tall oak . 
His head had fallen forward on his breast but at every stronger puff of wind his body span round and round , and his legs and arms tossed , like some ridiculous plaything . 
Dick clambered to his feet , and , staggering and leaning on the tree trunks as he went , drew near to this grim object . 
Dick raised the hood it was Throgmorton , Sir Daniel's messenger . 
He had not gone far upon his errand . 
Come , thought he , if the world changes yet again , I may have here the wherewithal to shame Sir Daniel nay , and perchance to bring him to the block . 
And he put the paper in his own bosom , said a prayer over the dead man , and set forth again through the woods . 
His fatigue and weakness increased his ears sang , his steps faltered , his mind at intervals failed him , so low had he been brought by loss of blood . 
Doubtless he made many deviations from his true path , but at last he came out upon the high road , not very far from Tunstall hamlet . 
A rough voice bid him stand . 
By the mass , but I am nearer falling . 
And he suited the action to the word , and fell all his length upon the road . 
Two men came forth out of the thicket , each in green forest jerkin , each with long bow and quiver and short sword . 
Why , Lawless , said the younger of the two , it is young Shelton . 
Ay , this will be as good as bread to John Amend All , returned the other . 
Though , faith , he hath been to the wars . 
Here is a tear in his scalp that must 'a' cost him many a good ounce of blood . 
And here , added Greensheve , is a hole in his shoulder that must have pricked him well . 
Who hath done this , think ye ? If it be one of ours , he may all to prayer Ellis will give him a short shrift and a long rope . 
Up with the cub , said Lawless . 
Clap him on my back . 
I will on with him by myself . 
The sun rose as he came out of the skirts of the wood and saw Tunstall hamlet straggling up the opposite hill . 
Who goes ? cried the man in command . 
Will Lawless , by the rood ye know me as well as your own hand , returned the outlaw , contemptuously . 
Give the word , Lawless , returned the other . 
Now , Heaven lighten thee , thou great fool , replied Lawless . 
Did I not tell it thee myself ? But ye are all mad for this playing at soldiers . 
And if I had forgotten it ? asked the other . 
An ye had forgotten it as I know y' 'ave not by the mass , I would clap an arrow into your big body , returned the first . 
Nay , an y' are so ill a jester , said Lawless , ye shall have your word for me . 
'Duckworth and Shelton' is the word and here , to the illustration , is Shelton on my shoulders , and to Duckworth do I carry him . 
Pass , Lawless , said the sentry . 
And where is John ? asked the Grey Friar . 
He holdeth a court , by the mass , and taketh rents as to the manner born ! cried another of the company . 
By the faces of the tenants , it was plain how little this proceeding pleased them for they argued very rightly that they would simply have to pay them twice . 
There the lad's hurts were looked to and he was recalled , by simple remedies , to consciousness . 
Dear lad , said Ellis , pressing his hand , y' are in a friend's hands that loved your father , and loves you for his sake . 
Rest ye a little quietly , for ye are somewhat out of case . 
Then shall ye tell me your story , and betwixt the two of us we shall find a remedy for all . 
Be but true to me and I see y' are true and betwixt you and me , we shall bring that false heart traitor to the death . 
Will ye assault the house ? asked Dick . 
I were mad , indeed , to think of it , returned Ellis . 
Nay , Dick , to the contrary , thou and I and my brave bowmen , we must all slip from this forest speedily , and leave Sir Daniel free . 
My mind misgiveth me for Jack , said the lad . 
For Jack ! repeated Duckworth . 
Presently one of them , taking heart of grace , came forward , and with the lowliest salutations , presented a letter to the knight . 
His face darkened as he read the contents . 
It ran thus To the most untrue and cruel gentylman , Sir Daniel Brackley , Knyght , These I fynde ye were untrue and unkynd fro the first . 
Ye have my father's blood upon your hands let be , it will not wasshe . 
The first step therinne will be thy first step to the grave . 
BOOK III MY LORD FOXHAM CHAPTER I THE HOUSE BY THE SHORE Months had passed away since Richard Shelton made his escape from the hands of his guardian . 
These months had been eventful for England . 
The party of Lancaster , which was then in the very article of death , had once more raised its head . 
The small town of Shoreby on the Till was full of the Lancastrian nobles of the neighbourhood . 
The world had changed indeed . 
It was a black , bitter cold evening in the first week of January , with a hard frost , a high wind , and every likelihood of snow before the morning . 
In an obscure alehouse in a by street near the harbour , three or four men sat drinking ale and eating a hasty mess of eggs . 
Nay , said one of the men at the table , I like it not . 
Ill will come of it . 
This is no place for jolly fellows . 
'Tis for Master Shelton there , said another , nodding his head towards the lad before the fire . 
Master Shelton , he said , Sir Daniel goeth forth with a pair of links and four archers . 
Dick rose instantly to his feet . 
Lawless , he said , ye will take John Capper's watch . 
Greensheve , follow with me . 
We will follow him this time , an he go to York . 
The town was already sound asleep no one moved upon the streets , and there was nothing easier than to follow the party without observation . 
They moved at a brisk walk , threading the intricate lanes and drawing nearer to the shore . 
He hath gone each night in this direction ? asked Dick , in a whisper . 
This is the third night running , Master Shelton , returned Capper , and still at the same hour and with the same small following , as though his end were secret . 
Sir Daniel and his six men were now come to the outskirts of the country . 
The lane which Sir Daniel had been following came to an abrupt end . 
Before him there was a stretch of rough down , and the noise of the sea surf was audible upon one hand . 
There were no guards in the neighbourhood , nor any light in that quarter of the town . 
Hey , said Dick , I smell treason . 
Meanwhile , Sir Daniel had come to a full halt . 
The torches were stuck into the sand , and the men lay down , as if to await the arrival of the other party . 
This drew near at a good rate . 
It consisted of four men only a pair of archers , a varlet with a link , and a cloaked gentleman walking in their midst . 
Is it you , my lord ? cried Sir Daniel . 
But shall we forth ? for the sooner ye have seen my merchandise , the sooner shall we both get home . 
But why keep ye her here , good knight ? inquired the other . 
I have told you , my lord , replied Sir Daniel , the reason thereof concerneth me only . 
Neither do I purpose to explain it farther . 
Ye will find him with an arrow in his back . 
Close upon the heels of these , Dick followed . 
Presently they came close down upon the beach . 
The air smelt salt the noise of the surf increased and here , in a large walled garden , there stood a small house of two storeys , with stables and other offices . 
The foremost torch bearer unlocked a door in the wall , and after the whole party had passed into the garden , again closed and locked it on the other side . 
Dick and his men were thus excluded from any farther following , unless they should scale the wall and thus put their necks in a trap . 
They sat down in a tuft of furze and waited . 
The red glow of the torches moved up and down and to and fro within the enclosure , as if the link bearers steadily patrolled the garden . 
Capper , ye will give me a back up , he said . 
They advanced , all three , to the wall Capper stooped , and Dick , getting upon his shoulders , clambered on to the cope stone . 
And so saying he dropped into the garden . 
It was all pitch dark there was no light in the house . 
The wind whistled shrill among the poor shrubs , and the surf beat upon the beach there was no other sound . 
Cautiously Dick footed it forth , stumbling among bushes , and groping with his hands and presently the crisp noise of gravel underfoot told him that he had struck upon an alley . 
The path led him straight to the group of buildings . 
Any one would have supposed the place to be deserted . 
But Dick had good reason to think otherwise . 
He continued his inspection , visiting the offices , trying all the windows . 
At length he came round to the sea side of the house , and there , sure enough , there burned a pale light in one of the upper windows . 
He stepped back a little way , till he thought he could see the movement of a shadow on the wall of the apartment . 
Then he remembered that , in the stable , his groping hand had rested for a moment on a ladder , and he returned with all despatch to bring it . 
He had never thought of his sweetheart as of so superior a being , and he was instantly taken with a feeling of diffidence . 
But he had little opportunity for thought . 
A low Hist ! sounded from close by , and he hastened to descend the ladder . 
Who goes ? he whispered . 
Greensheve , came the reply , in tones similarly guarded . 
What want ye ? asked Dick . 
The house is watched , Master Shelton , returned the outlaw . 
White , chequered with dark , repeated Dick . 
Faith , 'tis a badge I know not . 
It is none of this country's badges . 
Well , an that be so , let us slip as quietly forth from this garden as we may for here we are in an evil posture for defence . 
Beyond all question there are men of Sir Daniel's in that house , and to be taken between two shots is a beggarman's position . 
Take me this ladder I must leave it where I found it . 
They returned the ladder to the stable , and groped their way to the place where they had entered . 
Capper had taken Greensheve's position on the cope , and now he leaned down his hand , and , first one and then the other , pulled them up . 
Cautiously and silently , they dropped again upon the other side nor did they dare to speak until they had returned to their old ambush in the gorse . 
Now , John Capper , said Dick , back with you to Shoreby , even as for your life . 
Bring me instantly what men ye can collect . 
Greensheve and I lie here to watch . 
Speed ye , John Capper , and the saints aid you to despatch . 
And now , Greensheve , he continued , as soon as Capper had departed , let thou and I go round about the garden in a wide circuit . 
I would fain see whether thine eyes betrayed thee . 
Keeping well outwards from the wall , and profiting by every height and hollow , they passed about two sides , beholding nothing . 
Suddenly , against the comparative whiteness of the garden wall , the figure of a man was seen , like a faint Chinese shadow , violently signalling with both arms . 
As he dropped again to the earth , another arose a little farther on and repeated the same performance . 
And so , like a silent watch word , these gesticulations made the round of the beleaguered garden . 
They keep good watch , Dick whispered . 
Let us back to land , good master , answered Greensheve . 
We stand here too open for , look ye , when the seas break heavy and white out there behind us , they shall see us plainly against the foam . 
Ye speak sooth , returned Dick . 
Ashore with us , right speedily . 
CHAPTER II A SKIRMISH IN THE DARK Thoroughly drenched and chilled , the two adventurers returned to their position in the gorse . 
I pray Heaven that Capper make good speed ! said Dick . 
I vow a candle to St . 
Mary of Shoreby if he come before the hour ! Y' are in a hurry , Master Dick ? asked Greensheve . 
And yet , Master Dick , an she be in Sir Daniel's power already , it will little hurt that she should change into another's . 
Who should these be ? I do suspect the Lord of Shoreby , Dick replied . 
When came they ? They began to come , Master Dick , said Greensheve , about the time ye crossed the wall . 
I had not lain there the space of a minute ere I marked the first of the knaves crawling round the corner . 
Of two evils , Dick preferred the least . 
But the time passed , and still there was no movement . 
Presently Dick's reinforcements began to arrive . 
The night was not yet old before nearly a score of men crouched beside him in the gorse . 
Separating these into two bodies , he took the command of the smaller himself , and entrusted the larger to the leadership of Greensheve . 
Now , Kit , said he to this last , take me your men to the near angle of the garden wall upon the beach . 
Post them strongly , and wait till that ye hear me falling on upon the other side . 
It is those upon the sea front that I would fain make certain of , for there will be the leader . 
The rest will run even let them . 
And now , lads , let no man draw an arrow ye will but hurt friends . 
Take to the steel , and keep to the steel and if we have the uppermost , I promise every man of you a gold noble when I come to mine estate . 
The prospect of a sharp encounter and possible spoils restored them to good humour , and they joyfully prepared for battle . 
The bows , quivers , and tabards were concealed among the gorse , and the two bands set resolutely forward . 
Then they all shouted with one voice , and closed upon the enemy . 
These , lying widely scattered , stiff with cold , and taken at unawares , sprang stupidly to their feet , and stood undecided . 
Thereupon they gave themselves up for lost and ran . 
For all that , the fight was but beginning . 
Dick's outlaws , although they had the advantage of the surprise , were still considerably outnumbered by the men they had surrounded . 
The strangers were well armed they fell in silence upon their assailants and the affray became a series of single combats . 
One of these two was a huge fellow , almost a giant for stature , and armed with a two handed sword , which he brandished like a switch . 
The giant still pursued his advantage , and still Dick fled before him , spying for his chance . 
Then the huge blade flashed and descended , and the lad , leaping on one side and running in , slashed sideways and upwards with his bill . 
A roar of agony responded , and , before the wounded man could raise his formidable weapon , Dick , twice repeating his blow , had brought him to the ground . 
The next moment he was engaged , upon more equal terms , with his second pursuer . 
The man went down backwards , with Dick still upon the top of him and the next wave , speedily succeeding to the last , buried him below a rush of water . 
While he was still submerged , Dick forced his dagger from his grasp , and rose to his feet , victorious . 
Yield ye ! he said . 
I yield me , said the other , getting to his knees . 
Ye fight , like a young man , ignorantly and foolhardily but , by the array of the saints , ye fight bravely ! Dick turned to the beach . 
The combat was still raging doubtfully in the night over the hoarse roar of the breakers steel clanged upon steel , and cries of pain and the shout of battle resounded . 
Lead me to your captain , youth , said the conquered knight . 
It is fit this butchery should cease . 
Sir , replied Dick , so far as these brave fellows have a captain , the poor gentleman who here addresses you is he . 
Call off your dogs , then , and I will bid my villains hold , returned the other . 
There was something noble both in the voice and manner of his late opponent , and Dick instantly dismissed all fears of treachery . 
Lay down your arms , men ! cried the stranger knight . 
I have yielded me , upon promise of life . 
The tone of the stranger was one of absolute command , and almost instantly the din and confusion of the mellay ceased . 
Lawless , cried Dick , are ye safe ? Ay , cried Lawless , safe and hearty . 
Light me the lantern , said Dick . 
Is not Sir Daniel here ? inquired the knight . 
Sir Daniel ? echoed Dick . 
Now , by the rood , I pray not . 
It would go ill with me if he were . 
Ill with YOU , fair sir ? inquired the other . 
Nay , then , if ye be not of Sir Daniel's party , I profess I comprehend no longer . 
Dick could see the speaker's black and white badge , and the respectful salute which he addressed to his superior . 
Hawksley is in the right , added the lord . 
How please ye , sir ? Whither shall we march ? Nay , my lord , said Dick , go where ye will for me . 
I do begin to suspect we have some ground of friendship , and if , indeed , I began our acquaintance somewhat ruggedly , I would not churlishly continue . 
Let us , then , separate , my lord , you laying your right hand in mine and at the hour and place that ye shall name , let us encounter and agree . 
Y' are too trustful , boy , said the other but this time your trust is not misplaced . 
I will meet you at the point of day at St . 
He put his ear to the ground , and it seemed to him as if he heard a jarring and hollow noise from townward . 
Back to the beach he went hurrying . 
But the work was already done the last body was disarmed and stripped to the skin , and four fellows were already wading seaward to commit it to the mercies of the deep . 
Meanwhile , Dick and his men had returned to the ale house of the Goat and Bagpipes to snatch some hours of sleep before the morning tryst . 
Bride's cross stood a little way back from Shoreby , on the skirts of Tunstall Forest . 
Two roads met one , from Holywood across the forest one , that road from Risingham down which we saw the wrecks of a Lancastrian army fleeing in disorder . 
Here , then , about seven in the morning , Dick arrived . 
It was as cold as ever the earth was all grey and silver with the hoarfrost , and the day began to break in the east with many colours of purple and orange . 
Dick set him down upon the lowest step of the cross , wrapped himself well in his tabard , and looked vigilantly upon all sides . 
He had not long to wait . 
Down the road from Holywood a gentleman in very rich and bright armour , and wearing over that a surcoat of the rarest furs , came pacing on a splendid charger . 
His visor was raised , and showed a countenance of great command and dignity , answerable to the richness of his attire and arms . 
And it was with some confusion of manner that Dick arose from the cross and stepped down the bank to meet his prisoner . 
I thank you , my lord , for your exactitude , he said , louting very low . 
Y' 'ave done wisely , said the lord . 
It pleaseth me the rather , since last night ye fought foolhardily , and more like a salvage Saracen lunatic than any Christian warrior . 
But it becomes not me to complain that had the undermost . 
Ye had the undermost indeed , my lord , since ye so fell , returned Dick but had the waves not holpen me , it was I that should have had the worst . 
Ye were pleased to make me yours with several dagger marks , which I still carry . 
And in fine , my lord , methinks I had all the danger , as well as all the profit , of that little blind man's mellay on the beach . 
Y' are shrewd enough to make light of it , I see , returned the stranger . 
Nay , my lord , not shrewd , replied Dick , in that I shoot at no advantage to myself . 
Ye speak well , said the stranger . 
Your name ? My name , an't like you , is Shelton , answered Dick . 
Men call me the Lord Foxham , added the other . 
my gratitude and service till I die . 
But are ye not ward to Sir Daniel ? Methought , if y' are Harry Shelton's son , that I had heard it so reported , said Lord Foxham . 
Will it please you , my lord , to alight ? I would fain tell you fully who I am , how situate , and why so bold in my demands . 
Beseech you , my lord , take place upon these steps , hear me to a full end , and judge me with allowance . 
Be of a good cheer for ye have made a friend who is devoid neither of power nor favour . 
And his promise , for all it is but young , is still the likelier to be made good . 
'Tis the plain truth , returned his lordship . 
Aid me with your good fellows My lord , cried Dick , they are these same outlaws that ye blame me for consorting with . 
Let them be what they will , they can fight , returned Lord Foxham . 
Come , he said , an y' are to marry Joan , we must be early friends . 
CHAPTER IV THE GOOD HOPE An hour thereafter , Dick was back at the Goat and Bagpipes , breaking his fast , and receiving the report of his messengers and sentries . 
Duckworth was still absent from Shoreby and this was frequently the case , for he played many parts in the world , shared many different interests , and conducted many various affairs . 
It had been determined , between him and the Lord Foxham , to make one bold stroke that evening , and , by brute force , to set Joanna free . 
The obstacles , however , were many and as one after another of his scouts arrived , each brought him more discomfortable news . 
Sir Daniel was alarmed by the skirmish of the night before . 
Meanwhile , in the court of his mansion , steeds stood saddled , and the riders , armed at every point , awaited but the signal to ride . 
The adventure of the night appeared more and more difficult of execution , till suddenly Dick's countenance lightened . 
Presently after , these two set forth and descended to the harbour . 
It was a considerable basin , lying among sand hills , and surrounded with patches of down , ancient ruinous lumber , and tumble down slums of the town . 
Many decked ships and many open boats either lay there at anchor , or had been drawn up on the beach . 
The seamen , in view of the cold and the wind , had for the most part slunk ashore , and were now roaring and singing in the shoreside taverns . 
Many of the ships already rode unguarded at their anchors and as the day wore on , and the weather offered no appearance of improvement , the number was continually being augmented . 
He was disturbed by a touch upon his shoulder . 
There , sir , said Lawless , mark ye it well ! There is the ship for to night . 
Presently the skiff put out from the vessel's side , and the two men , keeping her head well to the wind , pulled lustily for shore . 
Lawless turned to a loiterer . 
How call ye her ? he asked , pointing to the little vessel . 
They call her the Good Hope , of Dartmouth , replied the loiterer . 
Her captain , Arblaster by name . 
He pulleth the bow oar in yon skiff . 
This was all that Lawless wanted . 
Hurriedly thanking the man , he moved round the shore to a certain sandy creek , for which the skiff was heading . 
There he took up his position , and as soon as they were within earshot , opened fire on the sailors of the Good Hope . 
What ! Gossip Arblaster ! he cried . 
I am now rich I have left to sail upon the sea I do sail now , for the most part , upon spiced ale . 
Nay , he said , I cannot mind you . 
But what o' that ? I would drink with any man , gossip , and so would my man Tom . 
Man Tom , he added , addressing his follower , here is my gossip , whose name I cannot mind , but no doubt a very good seaman . 
Let's go drink with him and his shore friend . 
In the middle , and besieged by half a hundred violent draughts , a fire of wreck wood blazed and vomited thick smoke . 
Man Tom , how say ye to that ? Gossip , ye speak well , though I can never think upon your name but ye speak very well . 
We are not like shore men , we old , tough tarry Johns ! It is well meant , returned the skipper . 
Ye can go , boy for I will keep your good friend and my good gossip company till curfew ay , and by St . 
Thence he sent word to my Lord Foxham that , so soon as ever the evening closed , they would have a stout boat to keep the sea in . 
And then leading along with him a couple of outlaws who had some experience of the sea , he returned himself to the harbour and the little sandy creek . 
The skiff of the Good Hope lay among many others , from which it was easily distinguished by its extreme smallness and fragility . 
The Good Hope , as we have said , was anchored far out , where the swell was heaviest . 
In a trice they had leaped upon the heaving deck , and the skiff was dancing at the stern . 
The Good Hope was captured . 
She was a good stout boat , decked in the bows and amidships , but open in the stern . 
She carried one mast , and was rigged between a felucca and a lugger . 
Well , Jack , keep me a good watch , said the young commander , preparing to follow his subordinate . 
Ye will do right well . 
But look , Master Dick ! how black the weather gathers ! The darkness ahead was , indeed , astonishing . 
Great billows heaved up out of the blackness , one after another and one after another the Good Hope buoyantly climbed , and giddily plunged upon the further side . 
A thin sprinkle of snow and thin flakes of foam came flying , and powdered the deck and the wind harped dismally among the rigging . 
In sooth , it looketh evilly , said Dick . 
But what cheer ! 'Tis but a squall , and presently it will blow over . 
At the landing creek there had already gathered about a dozen of the outlaws . 
To these the skiff was left , and they were bidden embark without delay . 
Well , returned Lord Foxham , lead on . 
I will , in some sort , follow you for shame's sake but I own I would I were in bed . 
Here , then , said Dick . 
Hither we go to fetch our pilot . 
And he led the way to the rude alehouse where he had given rendezvous to a portion of his men . 
The young leader cast a rapid glance about the shed . 
The fire had just been replenished , and gave forth volumes of black smoke , so that it was difficult to see clearly in the further corners . 
It was plain , however , that the outlaws very largely outnumbered the remainder of the guests . 
Satisfied upon this point , in case of any failure in the operation of his plan , Dick strode up to the table and resumed his place upon the bench . 
And he showed him a gold noble in the glimmer of the firelight . 
The shipman's eyes burned , although he still failed to recognise our hero . 
Ay , boy , he said , I am with you . 
Gossip , I will be back anon . 
Drink fair , gossip and , taking Dick's arm to steady his uneven steps , he walked to the door of the alehouse . 
Presently , his man Tom , similarly secured , was tossed beside him , and the pair were left to their uncouth reflections for the night . 
But it was now too late , whether for recovery or revenge . 
Out of some forty fighting men now mustered in the stolen ship , eight had been to sea , and could play the part of mariners . 
With the aid of these , a slice of sail was got upon her . 
Richard took his place beside the weather rigging . 
Many of the men lay holding on and praying aloud many more were sick , and had crept into the bottom , where they sprawled among the cargo . 
When some degree of order had been restored , Dick , with a few chosen men , set forth in advance . 
The darkness on shore , by contrast with the flashing of the surf , appeared before him like a solid body and the howling and whistling of the gale drowned any lesser noise . 
A strong discouragement assailed him . 
He gave a cautious whistle , the signal previously agreed upon . 
It proved to be a signal far more than he desired . 
That was perhaps the chief cause of the disaster which made haste to follow . 
Someone cried out that all was lost the men were in the very humour to lend an ear to a discomfortable counsel the cry was taken up . 
On board , lads , for your lives ! cried another . 
One coward thrust off the ship's stern , while another still held her by the bows . 
The fugitives leaped , screaming , and were hauled on board , or fell back and perished in the sea . 
Some were cut down upon the pier by the pursuers . 
Many were injured on the ship's deck in the blind haste and terror of the moment , one man leaping upon another , and a third on both . 
The ship began to move once more forward on the stormy sea , its scuppers running blood , its deck heaped with fallen men , sprawling and struggling in the dark . 
Thereupon , Lawless sheathed his dagger , and turning to his next neighbour , I have left my mark on them , gossip , said he , the yelping , coward hounds . 
But perhaps they had already begun to understand somewhat more clearly , or perhaps another ear had overheard , the helmsman's speech . 
This growing ill feeling turned upon Lawless . 
In order to get a proper offing , the old outlaw had put the head of the Good Hope to seaward . 
What ! bawled one of the grumblers , he carrieth us to seaward ! 'Tis sooth , cried another . 
Nay , we are betrayed for sure . 
And they all began to cry out in chorus that they were betrayed , and in shrill tones and with abominable oaths bade Lawless go about ship and bring them speedily ashore . 
Lawless , grinding his teeth , continued in silence to steer the true course , guiding the Good Hope among the formidable billows . 
To their empty terrors , as to their dishonourable threats , between drink and dignity he scorned to make reply . 
The malcontents drew together a little abaft the mast , and it was plain they were like barnyard cocks , crowing for courage . 
Presently they would be fit for any extremity of injustice or ingratitude . 
Dick began to mount by the ladder , eager to interpose but one of the outlaws , who was also something of a seaman , got beforehand . 
Lads , he began , y' are right wooden heads , I think . 
At this the wrath of Lawless rose and broke . 
Steer yourselves , he bellowed , with a curse and , careless of the result , he left the helm . 
The Good Hope was , at that moment , trembling on the summit of a swell . 
She subsided , with sickening velocity , upon the farther side . 
A wave , like a great black bulwark , hove immediately in front of her and , with a staggering blow , she plunged headforemost through that liquid hill . 
Nor did Lawless wait to be twice bidden . 
The terrible result of his fling of just resentment sobered him completely . 
Bootless , my master , bootless , said the steersman , peering forward through the dark . 
For , my master , 'tis a right mystery , but true , there never yet was a bad man that was a good shipman . 
None but the honest and the bold can endure me this tossing of a ship . 
Nay , Lawless , said Dick , laughing , that is a right shipman's byword , and hath no more of sense than the whistle of the wind . 
Howbeit , he went on , an I die not a sailor's death , and that this night , I shall owe a tall candle to our Lady . 
Is it so ? asked Dick . 
It is right so , replied the outlaw . 
Do ye not feel how heavy and dull she moves upon the waves ? Do ye not hear the water washing in her hold ? She will scarce mind the rudder even now . 
Ye speak with a good courage , returned Dick . 
The great bulk of the men had now deserted the deck , which was continually wetted with the flying sprays , and where they lay exposed to the shrewdness of the winter wind . 
They had gathered , instead , into the hold of the merchandise , among the butts of wine , and lighted by two swinging lanterns . 
Here a few kept up the form of revelry , and toasted each other deep in Arblaster's Gascony wine . 
Many sat apart , tending their hurts , but the majority were already prostrated with sickness , and lay moaning in the bilge . 
The moans of the wounded baron blended with the wailing of the ship's dog . 
Lord Foxham had been laid in a berth upon a fur cloak . 
A little lamp burned dim before the Virgin in the bulkhead , and by its glimmer Dick could see the pale countenance and hollow eyes of the hurt man . 
I am sore hurt , said he . 
Nay , my lord , said Dick , I pray rather to the saints that ye will recover you of your hurt , and come soon and sound ashore . 
How ! demanded his lordship . 
We have no priest aboard ? None , replied Dick . 
I fall in an evil hour for me , for England , and for them that trusted me . 
Will he obey ? I know not . 
But , my lord , what orders ? inquired Dick . 
Ay , quoth the baron , ay the orders and he looked upon Dick with hesitation . 
Are ye Lancaster or York ? he asked , at length . 
I shame to say it , answered Dick , I can scarce clearly answer . 
But so much I think is certain since I serve with Ellis Duckworth , I serve the house of York . 
Well , if that be so , I declare for York . 
It is well , returned the other it is exceeding well . 
For , truly , had ye said Lancaster , I wot not for the world what I had done . 
But sith ye are for York , follow me . 
prepareth a sufficient force to fall upon and scatter them . 
Bride's Cross beside the forest . 
I do soberly take this up on me , said Dick . 
In so far as in me lieth , your purpose shall be done . 
It is good , said the wounded man . 
My lord duke shall order you farther , and if ye obey him with spirit and good will , then is your fortune made . 
Give me the lamp a little nearer to mine eyes , till that I write these words for you . 
He wrote a note to his worshipful kinsman , Sir John Hamley and then a second , which he left without external superscripture . 
This is for the duke , he said . 
The word is 'England and Edward , and the counter , 'England and York . 
And Joanna , my lord ? asked Dick . 
Nay , ye must get Joanna how ye can , replied the baron . 
I have named you for my choice in both these letters but ye must get her for yourself , boy . 
I have tried , as ye see here before you , and have lost my life . 
More could no man do . 
The day was beginning to break , cold and blue , with flying squalls of snow . 
Close under the lee of the Good Hope , the coast lay in alternate rocky headlands and sandy bays and further inland the wooded hill tops of Tunstall showed along the sky . 
Both the wind and the sea had gone down but the vessel wallowed deep , and scarce rose upon the waves . 
Lawless was still fixed at the rudder and by this time nearly all the men had crawled on deck , and were now gazing , with blank faces , upon the inhospitable coast . 
Are we going ashore ? asked Dick . 
Ay , said Lawless , unless we get first to the bottom . 
And just then the ship rose so languidly to meet a sea , and the water weltered so loudly in her hold , that Dick involuntarily seized the steersman by the arm . 
By the mass ! cried Dick , as the bows of the Good Hope reappeared above the foam , I thought we had foundered , indeed my heart was at my throat . 
Now , boys , cried Lawless , the saints have had a care of us , indeed . 
The tide ebbs let us but sit down and drink a cup of wine , and before half an hour ye may all march me ashore as safe as on a bridge . 
Upon a hillock on one side of their way a party of men lay huddled together , suspiciously observing the movements of the new arrivals . 
They might draw near and offer us some comfort , Dick remarked . 
Well , an' they come not to us , let us even turn aside to them , said Hawksley . 
The sooner we come to a good fire and a dry bed the better for my poor lord . 
Back ! back ! cried his lordship . 
Beware , in Heaven's name , that ye reply not . 
Nay , cried Greensheve , pulling an arrow from his leather jack . 
It is the pity and reproach of this poor land . 
For his own part , influenced by what he had seen on board of the Good Hope , he chose Lawless to be his companion on the walk . 
About a mile into the forest they came to a place where several ways met , under a grove of lofty and contorted oaks . 
Even in the narrow horizon of the falling snow , it was a spot that could not fail to be recognised and Lawless evidently recognised it with particular delight . 
Lead on , Will , answered Dick . 
A cup of wine and a good fire ! Nay , I would go a far way round to see them . 
On the verge , a great beech tree hung , precariously rooted and here the old outlaw , pulling aside some bushy underwood , bodily disappeared into the earth . 
The roots served him for rafters , the turf was his thatch for walls and floor he had his mother the earth . 
With a sigh of great contentment , Lawless spread his broad hands before the fire , and seemed to breathe the smoke . 
I have been in England and France and Burgundy , and in Spain , too , on a pilgrimage for my poor soul and upon the sea , which is no man's country . 
But here is my place , Master Shelton . 
It's here I come back to , and it's here , so please the saints , that I would like to die . 
'Tis a warm corner , to be sure , replied Dick , and a pleasant , and a well hid . 
It had need to be , returned Lawless , for an they found it , Master Shelton , it would break my heart . 
But here , he added , burrowing with his stout fingers in the sandy floor , here is my wine cellar and ye shall have a flask of excellent strong stingo . 
Ye go on Ellis's but he desireth rather the death of Sir Daniel . 
Ye go on Lord Foxham's well the saints preserve him ! doubtless he meaneth well . 
But go ye upon your own , good Dick . 
Come right to the maid's side . 
Court her , lest that she forget you . 
Be ready and when the chance shall come , off with her at the saddle bow . 
Ay , but , Lawless , beyond doubt she is now in Sir Daniel's own mansion . 
Thither , then , go we , replied the outlaw . 
Nay , I mean it , nodded Lawless . 
Here , he said , is for you . 
Now , he resumed , when I have done the like , we shall make as bonny a pair of friars as the eye could wish . 
Boldly to Sir Daniel's we shall go , and there be hospitably welcome for the love of Mother Church . 
And how , dear Lawless , cried the lad , shall I repay you ? Tut , brother , replied the outlaw , I do naught but for my pleasure . 
I am one , by the mass , that mindeth for himself . 
When that I lack , I have a long tongue and a voice like the monastery bell I do ask , my son and where asking faileth , I do most usually take . 
The old rogue made a humorous grimace and although Dick was displeased to lie under so great favours to so equivocal a personage , he was yet unable to restrain his mirth . 
With that , Lawless returned to the big chest , and was soon similarly disguised but , below his gown , Dick wondered to observe him conceal a sheaf of black arrows . 
Wherefore do ye that ? asked the lad . 
A black arrow , Master Dick , is the seal of our abbey it showeth you who writ the bill . 
I trust you , man . 
I were base indeed if I not trusted you . 
Brother , y' are but a child , replied the old outlaw , pausing and turning his face upon Dick from the threshold of the den . 
I am a kind old Christian , and no traitor to men's blood , and no sparer of mine own in a friend's jeopardy . 
But , fool , child , I am a thief by trade and birth and habit . 
Dick , thus left alone , after a wondering thought upon the inconsistencies of his companion's character , hastily produced , reviewed , and buried his papers . 
One only he reserved to carry along with him , since it in nowise compromised his friends , and yet might serve him , in a pinch , against Sir Daniel . 
Each looked upon the other , and each laughed , so thorough and so droll was the disguise . 
Yet I would it were but summer and a clear day , grumbled the outlaw , that I might see myself in the mirror of a pool . 
Presently at sight of one of these , Lawless pulled up . 
Brother Martin , he said , in a voice capitally disguised , and suited to his monkish robe , let us enter and seek alms from these poor sinners . 
He was by this time close to the window of the farm , and he rose on his tip toes and peeped in . 
Nay , he cried , better and better . 
We shall here try our false faces with a vengeance , and have a merry jest on Brother Capper to boot . 
And so saying , he opened the door and led the way into the house . 
Three of their own company sat at the table , greedily eating . 
We want no beggars here ! he cried . 
But another although he was as far from recognising Dick and Lawless inclined to more moderate counsels . 
Not so , he cried . 
We be strong men , and take these be weak , and crave but in the latter end these shall be uppermost and we below . 
Mind him not , my father but come , drink of my cup , and give me a benediction . 
Y' are men of a light mind , carnal , and accursed , said the monk . 
So , he said , we have proved our false faces , Master Shelton . 
I will now adventure my poor carcase where ye please . 
It irks me to be doing . 
To the back there stretched a garden , full of fruit trees , alleys , and thick arbours , and overlooked from the far end by the tower of the abbey church . 
The house might contain , upon a pinch , the retinue of a greater person than Sir Daniel but even now it was filled with hubbub . 
Sir Daniel , in his profusion , in the gaiety and gallantry of his establishment , rivalled with Lord Shoreby , and eclipsed Lord Risingham . 
All guests were made welcome . 
The snow , which still fell without interruption , the extreme chill of the air , and the approach of night , combined to keep them under shelter . 
Wine , ale , and money were all plentiful many sprawled gambling in the straw of the barn , many were still drunken from the noontide meal . 
Two monks a young and an old had arrived late , and were now warming themselves at a bonfire in a corner of the shed . 
The younger companion , in whom the reader has already recognised Dick Shelton , sat from the first somewhat backward , and gradually drew himself away . 
He listened , indeed , closely , but he opened not his mouth and by the grave expression of his countenance , he made but little account of his companion's pleasantries . 
Two ladies , muffled in thick furs , led the way , and were followed by a pair of waiting women and four stout men at arms . 
The next moment they had disappeared within the house and Dick , slipping through the crowd of loiterers in the shed , was already giving hot pursuit . 
The taller of these twain was Lady Brackley , he thought and where Lady Brackley is , Joan will not be far . 
It was already the dusk of the day and in the house the darkness of the night had almost come . 
On the stair landings , torches flared in iron holders down the long , tapestried corridors , a lamp burned by every door . 
And where the door stood open , Dick could look in upon arras covered walls and rush bescattered floors , glowing in the light of the wood fires . 
Two floors were passed , and at every landing the younger and shorter of the two ladies had looked back keenly at the monk . 
He , keeping his eyes lowered , and affecting the demure manners that suited his disguise , had but seen her once , and was unaware that he had attracted her attention . 
Dick mounted with a swift foot , and holding to the corner , thrust forth his head and followed the three women with his eyes . 
Without turning or looking behind them , they continued to descend the corridor . 
It is right well , thought Dick . 
Let me but know my Lady Brackley's chamber , and it will go hard an I find not Dame Hatch upon an errand . 
And just then a hand was laid upon his shoulder , and , with a bound and a choked cry , he turned to grapple his assailant . 
He was somewhat abashed to find , in the person whom he had so roughly seized , the short young lady in the furs . 
She , on her part , was shocked and terrified beyond expression , and hung trembling in his grasp . 
The girl continued to look at him , but , by this time , terror began to be succeeded by surprise , and surprise by suspicion . 
Dick , who could read these changes on her face , became alarmed for his own safety in that hostile house . 
Fair maid , he said , affecting easiness , suffer me to kiss your hand , in token ye forgive my roughness , and I will even go . 
I cannot think ye would be cruel , added Dick and taking the girl's hand gently in both of his , he looked at her with courteous admiration . 
Are ye , then , a spy a Yorkist ? asked the maid . 
Madam , he replied , I am indeed a Yorkist , and , in some sort , a spy . 
But that which bringeth me into this house , the same which will win for me the pity and interest of your kind heart , is neither of York nor Lancaster . 
I will wholly put my life in your discretion . 
Hush ! she said , and come ! Shalt talk hereafter . 
Now , said the young lady , forcing him down upon a stool , sit ye there and attend my sovereign good pleasure . 
I have life and death over you , and I will not scruple to abuse my power . 
Look to yourself y' 'ave cruelly mauled my arm . 
Ta'en my belt to her ! he repeated . 
Ta'en my belt to her ! And the recollection of that evening in the forest flowed back upon his mind , and he once more saw Matcham's wincing body and beseeching eyes . 
And then he was recalled to the dangers of the present . 
She was attired in costly stuffs of deep and warm colours , such as befit the winter and the snow . 
Upon her head , her hair had been gathered together and became her as a crown . 
Without a start , without a tremor , she raised her lamp and looked at the young monk . 
What make ye here , good brother ? she inquired . 
Ye are doubtless ill directed . 
Whom do ye require ? And she set her lamp upon the bracket . 
Joanna , said Dick and then his voice failed him . 
Joanna , he began again , ye said ye loved me and the more fool I , but I believed it ! Dick ! she cried . 
Oh , the fool fellow ! she cried . 
Oh , dear Dick ! Oh , if ye could see yourself ! Alack ! she added , pausing . 
I have spoilt you , Dick ! I have knocked some of the paint off . 
But that can be mended . 
What cannot be mended , Dick or I much fear it cannot ! is my marriage with Lord Shoreby . 
Is it decided , then ? asked the lad . 
To morrow , before noon , Dick , in the abbey church , she answered , John Matcham and Joanna Sedley both shall come to a right miserable end . 
There is no help in tears , or I could weep mine eyes out . 
I have not spared myself to pray , but Heaven frowns on my petition . 
And , dear Dick good Dick but that ye can get me forth of this house before the morning , we must even kiss and say good bye . 
Nay , said Dick , not I I will never say that word . 
'Tis like despair but while there's life , Joanna , there is hope . 
Ay , she said , dryly , ye make a great ado about a sky blue robe ! Nay , Joan , protested Dick , 'tis not alone the robe . 
But , lass , ye were disguised . 
Well , then ! he returned , triumphant . 
So was it with you , poor Matcham , in the forest . 
In sooth , ye were a wench to laugh at . 
But presently there was a noise behind them and they were aware of the short young lady , with her finger on her lips . 
And you , sir , added the young lady , what do ye give me ? Madam , said Dick , I would fain offer to pay you in the same money . 
Come , then , said the lady , it is permitted you . 
But Dick , blushing like a peony , only kissed her hand . 
But at this they both cried out that they had said nothing , that the night was still very young , and that they would not be separated so early . 
And supper ? asked the young lady . 
Must we not go down to supper ? Nay , to be sure ! cried Joan . 
He had not been long in this position , when he was somewhat strangely disturbed . 
His mouth was open , as though to hear the better and his eyes , which were very bright , flitted restlessly and swiftly to and fro . 
He went round and round the room , striking here and there upon the hangings but Dick , by a miracle , escaped his notice . 
He was half tempted to throw aside the arras , fall upon the scoundrel , and , at the risk of his life , remove the telltale token . 
And while he was still hesitating , a new cause of concern was added . 
A voice , hoarse and broken by drink , began to be audible from the stair and presently after , uneven , wandering , and heavy footsteps sounded without along the passage . 
What make ye here , my merry men , among the greenwood shaws ? sang the voice . 
What was to be done ? If he lost touch of Lawless for the night , he was left impotent , whether to plan or carry forth Joanna's rescue . 
If , on the other hand , he dared to address the drunken outlaw , the spy might still be lingering within sight , and the most fatal consequences ensue . 
It was , nevertheless , upon this last hazard that Dick decided . 
Slipping from behind the tapestry , he stood ready in the doorway of the chamber , with a warning hand upraised . 
Lawless , flushed crimson , with his eyes injected , vacillating on his feet , drew still unsteadily nearer . 
At last he hazily caught sight of his commander , and , in despite of Dick's imperious signals , hailed him instantly and loudly by his name . 
Dick leaped upon and shook the drunkard furiously . 
Beast ! he hissed beast and no man ! It is worse than treachery to be so witless . 
We may all be shent for thy sotting . 
But Lawless only laughed and staggered , and tried to clap young Shelton on the back . 
And just then Dick's quick ear caught a rapid brushing in the arras . 
He leaped towards the sound , and the next moment a piece of the wall hanging had been torn down , and Dick and the spy were sprawling together in its folds . 
Over and over they rolled , grappling for each other's throat , and still baffled by the arras , and still silent in their deadly fury . 
But Dick was by much the stronger , and soon the spy lay prostrate under his knee , and , with a single stroke of the long poniard , ceased to breathe . 
The name awoke Dick's recollection and he instantly broke the wax and read the contents of the letter . 
It was short , but , to Dick's delight , it gave evident proof that Lord Shoreby was treacherously corresponding with the House of York . 
The sight of this disrespect , or , as it almost seemed , cruelty to the dead , drew a cry of horror from young Shelton but the old outlaw only laughed . 
Nay , I will have the credit for mine order , he hiccupped . 
So soon as he was out of sight , Dick returned to his hiding place , resolutely fixed to see the matter out . 
Wisdom , indeed , moved him to be gone but love and curiosity were stronger . 
Time passed slowly for the young man , bolt upright behind the arras . 
The fire in the room began to die down , and the lamp to burn low and to smoke . 
Some ran forward and some back , and all together began to cry aloud . 
Soon a way was cleared , and Sir Daniel came forth in person , followed by the bridegroom of the morrow , my Lord Shoreby . 
I would I had more such . 
He was keen as a beagle and secret as a mole . 
Ay , gossip , truly ? asked Sir Daniel , keenly . 
And what came he smelling up so many stairs in my poor mansion ? But he will smell no more . 
An't please you , Sir Daniel , said one , here is a paper written upon with some matter , pinned upon his breast . 
Give it me , arrow and all , said the knight . 
And when he had taken into his hand the shaft , he continued for some time to gaze upon it in a sullen musing . 
Ay , he said , addressing Lord Shoreby , here is a hate that followeth hard and close upon my heels . 
This black stick , or its just likeness , shall yet bring me down . 
But let us see what they have written . 
It is as I thought , my lord y' are marked , like an old oak , by the woodman to morrow or next day , by will come the axe . 
He rose to his feet with a somewhat unsettled countenance . 
But let us , first of all , secure the issues of the house . 
Here is enough harm already , by St . 
Meanwhile , the body of the spy was carried out through the falling snow and deposited in the abbey church . 
He , upon his side , recounted the visit of the spy , his dangerous discovery , and speedy end . 
Joanna leaned back very faint against the curtained wall . 
It will avail but little , she said . 
I shall be wed to morrow , in the morning , after all ! What ! cried her friend . 
And here is our paladin that driveth lions like mice ! Ye have little faith , of a surety . 
But come , friend lion driver , give us some comfort speak , and let us hear bold counsels . 
Dick was confounded to be thus outfaced with his own exaggerated words but though he coloured , he still spoke stoutly . 
Truly , said he , we are in straits . 
And for the lions , mimicked the girl , they shall be driven . 
I crave your excuse , said Dick . 
Take me , I pray you , rightly . 
Why said ye he was rustic , Joan ? the girl inquired . 
I warrant he hath a tongue in his head ready , soft , and bold is his speech at pleasure . 
What would ye more ? Nay , sighed Joanna , with a smile , they have changed me my friend Dick , 'tis sure enough . 
When I beheld him , he was rough indeed . 
A friar is not much regarded and if I found a good fairy to lead me up , I may find another belike to carry me down . 
How call they the name of this spy ? Rutter , said the young lady and an excellent good name to call him by . 
They will be praying over his poor clay even now . 
The device is somewhat simple , replied the girl , yet it may hold . 
Nay , said young Shelton , it is no device , but mere boldness , which serveth often better in great straits . 
Ye say true , she said . 
Well , go , a Mary's name , and may Heaven speed you ! Ye leave here a poor maid that loves you entirely , and another that is most heartily your friend . 
Be wary , for their sakes , and make not shipwreck of your safety . 
Ay , added Joanna , go , Dick . 
Ye run no more peril , whether ye go or stay . 
PAX VOBISCUM , answered Dick . 
I go to pray over the body of this poor Rutter . 
Like enough , returned the sentry but to go alone is not permitted you . 
He leaned over the oaken balusters and whistled shrill . 
One cometh ! he cried and then motioned Dick to pass . 
Let him not slip , my lads , he said . 
In this order they proceeded through the garden , under the thick darkness of the night and the scattering snow , and drew near to the dimly illuminated windows of the abbey church . 
The church was doubtfully lighted by the tapers upon the great altar , and by a lamp or two that swung from the arched roof before the private chapels of illustrious families . 
In the midst of the choir the dead spy lay , his limbs piously composed , upon a bier . 
, when he had heard the report of the archer . 
My brother , I looked not for your coming , he added , turning to young Shelton . 
My life is in your hands . 
Sir Oliver violently started his stout cheeks grew pale , and for a space he was silent . 
Richard , he said , what brings you here , I know not but I much misdoubt it to be evil . 
Nevertheless , for the kindness that was , I would not willingly deliver you to harm . 
But if your purpose be bloody , it shall return upon your head . 
Amen ! And the priest devoutly crossed himself , and turned and louted to the altar . 
His mind and his eyes , however , were continually wandering . 
Here , then , he was trapped . 
But , for all that , he obtained a command upon his mind , and built himself up in patience to await the issue . 
Rutter , the spy , was nobly waked . 
Once only , in the course of the hours , Sir Oliver leaned across to his captive . 
Richard , he whispered , my son , if ye mean me evil , I will certify , on my soul's welfare , ye design upon an innocent man . 
Sinful in the eye of Heaven I do declare myself but sinful as against you I am not , neither have been ever . 
A man may be innocently guilty , replied the priest . 
He may be set blindfolded upon a mission , ignorant of its true scope . 
So it was with me . 
I did decoy your father to his death but as Heaven sees us in this sacred place , I knew not what I did . 
It may be , returned Dick . 
Methinks , if ye had been all your life a true man and good priest , ye would neither thus fear nor thus detest me . 
And now to your prayers . 
I do obey you , since needs must but I will not be burthened with your company . 
He joined no longer in the psalms but Dick could hear the beads rattle through his fingers and the prayers a pattering between his teeth . 
Yet a little , and the grey of the morning began to struggle through the painted casements of the church , and to put to shame the glimmer of the tapers . 
The light slowly broadened and brightened , and presently through the south eastern clerestories a flush of rosy sunlight flickered on the walls . 
The storm was over the great clouds had disburdened their snow and fled farther on , and the new day was breaking on a merry winter landscape sheathed in white . 
The outlaw , at the same moment , recognised his leader , and privily signed to him with hand and eye . 
Lawless , as though he had understood , disappeared at once behind a pillar , and Dick breathed again . 
If the priest's suspicions had been so lightly wakened , the harm was already done , and Lawless a prisoner in the church . 
Move not , whispered Dick . 
We are in the plaguiest pass , thanks , before all things , to thy swinishness of yestereven . 
Is Ellis , then , returned ? For sure , replied the outlaw . 
He came last night , and belted me sore for being in wine so there ye are avenged , my master . 
I had a fair choice , by the rood ! to lose my sweetheart or else lose my life ! Well , the cast is thrown it is to be my life . 
By the mass , cried Lawless , half arising , I am gone ! But Dick had his hand at once upon his shoulder . 
Friend Lawless , sit ye still , he said . 
Ye were bold aboard ship , when ye thought to die a sea death be bold again , now that y' are to die presently upon the gallows . 
Master Dick , gasped Lawless , the thing hath come upon me somewhat of the suddenest . 
But give me a moment till I fetch my breath again and , by the mass , I will be as stout hearted as yourself . 
Here is my bold fellow ! returned Dick . 
And yet , Lawless , it goes hard against the grain with me to die but where whining mendeth nothing , wherefore whine ? Nay , that indeed ! chimed Lawless . 
And a fig for death , at worst ! It has to be done , my master , soon or late . 
And hanging in a good quarrel is an easy death , they say , though I could never hear of any that came back to say so . 
And so saying , the stout old rascal leaned back in his stall , folded his arms , and began to look about him with the greatest air of insolence and unconcern . 
And for the matter of that , Dick added , it is yet our best chance to keep quiet . 
We wot not yet what Duckworth purposes and when all is said , and if the worst befall , we may yet clear our feet of it . 
Now that they ceased talking , they were aware of a very distant and thin strain of mirthful music which steadily drew nearer , louder , and merrier . 
And now came the hour of Ellis Duckworth . 
Dick , who sat stunned among contrary emotions , grasping the desk in front of him , beheld a movement in the crowd , people jostling backward , and eyes and arms uplifted . 
Following these signs , he beheld three or four men with bent bows leaning from the clerestory gallery . 
Right in the midst of the nave the bridegroom lay stone dead , pierced by two black arrows . 
Long before any search could be made for them , the authors of this tragic interruption had clattered down a turnpike stair and decamped by a postern door . 
And now , pale with horror , Sir Oliver rose to his feet and called upon Sir Daniel , pointing with one hand to Dick . 
Sir Daniel was blinded by anger blinded by the hot blood that still streamed across his face . 
Lawless , on his part , sat as still as a mouse . 
Sir Daniel , brushing the blood out of his eyes , stared blinkingly upon his captive . 
Away with him ! he added . 
Here is no place ! Off with him to my house . 
I will number every joint of thy body with a torture . 
But Dick , putting off his captors , uplifted his voice . 
On what probation ? cried Dick . 
They do accuse me , indeed , of some complicity , but have not proved one tittle . 
I was , in truth , a suitor for this damsel's hand and she , I will be bold to say it , repaid my suit with favour . 
But what then ? To love a maid is no offence , I trow nay , nor to gain her love . 
In all else , I stand here free from guiltiness . 
He , in his turn , was dragged from his seat and set beside his leader . 
The feelings of the crowd rose high on either side , and while some dragged the prisoners to and fro to favour their escape , others cursed and struck them with their fists . 
Dick's ears rang and his brain swam dizzily , like a man struggling in the eddies of a furious river . 
But the tall man who had already answered Dick , by a prodigious exercise of voice restored silence and order in the mob . 
Search them , he said , for arms . 
We may so judge of their intentions . 
At this there was a great shout among Sir Daniel's followers , which the tall man suppressed by a gesture and an imperious glance . 
But when it came to the turn of Lawless , there was found under his gown a sheaf of arrows identical with those that had been shot . 
How say ye now ? asked the tall man , frowningly , of Dick . 
To you , then , I will yield me prisoner , and that blithely , foregoing the advantage of this holy place . 
Your own ears have heard him , how before that I was proven guilty he did threaten me with torments . 
My lord , cried Sir Daniel , ye will not hearken to this wolf ? His bloody dagger reeks him the lie into his face . 
Nay , but suffer me , good knight , returned the tall stranger your own vehemence doth somewhat tell against yourself . 
My Lord of Risingham , she cried , hear me , in justice . 
I am here in this man's custody by mere force , reft from mine own people . 
Since that day I had never pity , countenance , nor comfort from the face of man but from him only Richard Shelton whom they now accuse and labour to undo . 
My lord , if he was yesternight in Sir Daniel's mansion , it was I that brought him there he came but at my prayer , and thought to do no hurt . 
It was I , unworthy , that did lead the young man in . 
Earl Risingham had heard in silence , and when the voices ceased , he still stood silent for a space . 
Then he gave Joanna his hand to arise , though it was to be observed that he did not offer the like courtesy to her who had called herself his niece . 
Sir Daniel , he said , here is a right intricate affair , the which , with your good leave , it shall be mine to examine and adjust . 
Content ye , then your business is in careful hands justice shall be done you and in the meanwhile , get ye incontinently home , and have your hurts attended . 
The air is shrewd , and I would not ye took cold upon these scratches . 
He made a sign with his hand it was passed down the nave by obsequious servants , who waited there upon his smallest gesture . 
Nothing but the armed men at the doors , and the mounted messengers that kept arriving and departing , announced the temporary residence of a great lord . 
Thus it was that , from lack of space , Dick and Lawless were clapped into the same apartment . 
Well spoken , Master Richard , said the outlaw it was excellently well spoken , and , for my part , I thank you cordially . 
Here we are in good hands we shall be justly tried , and , some time this evening , decently hanged on the same tree . 
Indeed , my poor friend , I do believe it , answered Dick . 
Yet have we a string to our bow , returned Lawless . 
It may not be , said Dick . 
What can he do ? He hath but a handful . 
Alack , if it were but to morrow could I but keep a certain tryst an hour before noon to morrow all were , I think , otherwise . 
But now there is no help . 
Well , concluded Lawless , an ye will stand to it for my innocence , I will stand to it for yours , and that stoutly . 
It shall naught avail us but an I be to hang , it shall not be for lack of swearing . 
Soon he was loudly snoring , so utterly had his long life of hardship and adventure blunted the sense of apprehension . 
On his captive's entrance he looked up . 
I slew this fellow Rutter and to the proof searching in his bosom here is a letter from his wallet . 
Lord Risingham took the letter , and opened and read it twice . 
Ye have read this ? he inquired . 
I have read it , answered Dick . 
Are ye for York or Lancaster ? the earl demanded . 
My lord , I am for York . 
Honestly replied , he said . 
But wherefore , then , deliver me this letter ? Nay , but against traitors , my lord , are not all sides arrayed ? cried Dick . 
I would they were , young gentleman , returned the earl and I do at least approve your saying . 
There is more youth than guile in you , I do perceive and were not Sir Daniel a mighty man upon our side , I were half tempted to espouse your quarrel . 
For I have inquired , and it appears ye have been hardly dealt with , and have much excuse . 
My lord , returned Dick , ye will think me very bold to counsel you but do ye count upon Sir Daniel's faith ? Methought he had changed sides intolerably often . 
Nay , it is the way of England . 
What would ye have ? the earl demanded . 
But ye are unjust to the knight of Tunstall and as faith goes , in this unfaithful generation , he hath of late been honourably true to us of Lancaster . 
Even in our last reverses he stood firm . 
The effect upon the earl's countenance was instant he lowered like an angry lion , and his hand , with a sudden movement , clutched at his dagger . 
Ye have read this also ? he asked . 
Even so , said Dick . 
It is your lordship's own estate he offers to Lord Wensleydale ? It is my own estate , even as ye say ! returned the earl . 
I am your bedesman for this letter . 
It hath shown me a fox's hole . 
Go , a Mary's name ! But judge it right that I retain and hang your fellow , Lawless . 
The crime hath been most open , and it were fitting that some open punishment should follow . 
My lord , I make it my first suit to you to spare him also , pleaded Dick . 
It is an old , condemned rogue , thief , and vagabond , Master Shelton , said the earl . 
He hath been gallows ripe this score of years . 
Master Shelton , ye are troublesome , replied the earl , severely . 
It is an evil way to prosper in this world . 
Howbeit , and to be quit of your importunity , I will once more humour you . 
Go , then , together but go warily , and get swiftly out of Shoreby town . 
thirsteth most greedily to have your blood . 
They paused in shelter of the garden wall to consult on their best course . 
If one of Sir Daniel's men caught sight of them and raised the view hallo , they would be run down and butchered instantly . 
And not only was the town of Shoreby a mere net of peril for their lives , but to make for the open country was to run the risk of the patrols . 
A little way off , upon some open ground , they spied a windmill standing and hard by that , a very large granary with open doors . 
How if we lay there until the night fall ? Dick proposed . 
And Lawless having no better suggestion to offer , they made a straight push for the granary at a run , and concealed themselves behind the door among some straw . 
The daylight rapidly departed and presently the moon was silvering the frozen snow . 
Now or never was their opportunity to gain the Goat and Bagpipes unobserved and change their tell tale garments . 
This course was a long one . 
It took them not far from the house by the beach , now lying dark and silent , and brought them forth at last by the margin of the harbour . 
were no longer thronged with customers , and no longer echoed to the chorus of sea songs . 
Instantly they stopped , and made believe to be engaged in earnest conversation . 
Three men , one after another , came out of the ale house , and the last closed the door behind him . 
The tallest of the three was talking in a loud , lamentable voice . 
I have had losses of mine own , gossip Arblaster . 
I was robbed at Martinmas of five shillings and a leather wallet well worth ninepence farthing . 
Dick's heart smote him at what he heard . 
The ship's dog had , however , made his escape from the wreck and found his way back again to Shoreby . 
He was now at Arblaster's heels , and suddenly sniffing and pricking his ears , he darted forward and began to bark furiously at the two sham friars . 
His master unsteadily followed him . 
Hey , shipmates ! he cried . 
Come , a penny piece . 
Are ye dumb , boy ? inquired the skipper . 
Mates , he added , with a hiccup , they be dumb . 
I like not this manner of discourtesy for an a man be dumb , so be as he's courteous , he will still speak when he was spoken to , methinks . 
The affair passed in a second . 
Bring me him back into the alehouse , till I see his face , said Arblaster . 
Nay , nay , returned Tom but let us first unload his wallet , lest the other lads cry share . 
But though he was searched from head to foot , not a penny was found upon him nothing but Lord Foxham's signet , which they plucked savagely from his finger . 
Turn me him to the moon , said the skipper and taking Dick by the chin , he cruelly jerked his head into the air . 
Blessed Virgin ! he cried , it is the pirate ! Hey ! cried Tom . 
By the Virgin of Bordeaux , it is the man himself ! repeated Arblaster . 
What , sea thief , do I hold you ? he cried . 
When he had done , the lad was a mere package in his hands as helpless as the dead . 
The skipper held him at arm's length , and laughed aloud . 
Then he fetched him a stunning buffet on the ear and then turned him about , and furiously kicked and kicked him . 
Here was a momentary respite ere they began again to torture him , he might have found some method to escape from this degrading and fatal misadventure . 
Ay , said Tom , now y' are trussed ye would cozen us . 
Cozen you ! repeated Dick . 
Nay , if ye be fools , it would be easy . 
But if ye be shrewd fellows , as I trow ye are , ye can see plainly where your interest lies . 
He seeks but to cozen us , said Tom , contemptuously . 
Cozen ! cozen ! cried the third man . 
I would I could see the man that could cozen me ! He were a cozener indeed ! Nay , I was not born yesterday . 
I can see a church when it hath a steeple on it and for my part , gossip Arblaster , methinks there is some sense in this young man . 
Shall we go hear him , indeed ? Say , shall we go hear him ? I would look gladly on a pottle of strong ale , good Master Pirret , returned Arblaster . 
How say ye , Tom ? But then the wallet is empty . 
I will pay , said the other I will pay . 
I would fain see this matter out I do believe , upon my conscience , there is gold in it . 
Nay , if ye get again to drinking , all is lost ! cried Tom . 
Gossip Arblaster , ye suffer your fellow to have too much liberty , returned Master Pirret . 
Would ye be led by a hired man ? Fy , fy ! Peace , fellow ! said Arblaster , addressing Tom . 
Set him , then , upon his feet , said Master Pirret . 
I know a privy place where we may drink and discourse . 
If I am to walk , my friends , ye must set my feet at liberty , said Dick , when he had been once more planted upright like a post . 
He saith true , laughed Pirret . 
Truly , he could not walk accoutred as he is . 
Give it a slit out with your knife and slit it , gossip . 
So much he owed already to the owlish silliness and greed of Master Pirret . 
That worthy now assumed the lead , and conducted them to the very same rude alehouse where Lawless had taken Arblaster on the day of the gale . 
And now , young man , said Pirret , to your tale . 
To squander time was the first necessity . 
The longer his stay lasted , the more would his captors drink , and the surer should he be when he attempted his escape . 
Pretty soon a second measure of mulled ale was called for and while Dick was still artfully spinning out the incidents a third followed the second . 
Here was the position of the parties towards the end Arblaster , three parts drunk and one half asleep , hung helpless on his stool . 
Even Tom had been much delighted with the tale , and his vigilance had abated in proportion . 
Meanwhile , Dick had gradually wormed his right arm clear of its bonds , and was ready to risk all . 
Here be we four good ! Let us , then , go forth into the forest to morrow ere the sun be up . 
Could we come honestly by a donkey , it were better but an we cannot , we have our four strong backs , and I warrant me we shall come home staggering . 
It is a thing not trusted twice a year beyond the captain's wallet . 
A spell ! said Arblaster , half awakening , and squinting upon Dick with one eye . 
Aroint thee ! no spells ! I be a good Christian . 
Ask my man Tom , else . 
Nay , but this is white magic , said Dick . 
It doth naught with the devil only the powers of numbers , herbs , and planets . 
Ay , ay , said Pirret 'tis but white magic , gossip . 
There is no sin therein , I do assure you . 
But proceed , good youth . 
This spell in what should it consist ? Nay , that I will incontinently show you , answered Dick . 
Thus , then , is the spell . 
With a haggard glance , Dick saw the coast was clear between him and the door . 
He put up an internal prayer . 
Tom and Pirret followed him with shouts from every drinking shop they were joined by others whom their cries aroused and presently a whole fleet of sailors was in full pursuit . 
Upon the white floor of snow , all the shipmen of Shoreby came clustering in an inky mass , and tailing out rearward in isolated clumps . 
The confused mass of sound which they rolled up as high as to the moon was partly comical and partly terrifying to the fugitive whom they were hunting . 
In itself , it was impotent , for he made sure no seaman in the port could run him down . 
It was a long while , indeed , before this great invasion of the town by the harbour came to an end , and it was long before silence was restored . 
For long , lost sailors were still to be heard pounding and shouting through the streets in all directions and in every quarter of the town . 
By next morning there were many strange stories flying and a little while after , the legend of the devil's nocturnal visit was an article of faith with all the lads of Shoreby . 
But the return of the last seaman did not , even yet , set free young Shelton from his cold imprisonment in the doorway . 
The frost was more rigorous than ever the air windless and dry , and stinging to the nostril . 
The moon had gone down , but the stars were still bright and numerous , and the reflection from the snow was clear and cheerful . 
There was no need for a lamp to walk by nor , in that still but ringing air , the least temptation to delay . 
It was blown once , and then hurriedly a second time and then the clash of steel succeeded . 
At this young Shelton pricked his ears , and drawing his sword , ran forward up the hill . 
Presently he came in sight of the cross , and was aware of a most fierce encounter raging on the road before it . 
These were stout fellows also , for they gave not an inch at this surprise , but faced about , and fell with astonishing fury upon Dick . 
But that ear piercing summons had been heard at last . 
The original assailants seeing themselves outnumbered and surrounded , threw down their arms without a word . 
Seize me these fellows ! said the hero of the trumpet and when his order had been obeyed , he drew near to Dick and looked him in the face . 
The eyes , however , were very clear and bold . 
Sir , said this lad , ye came in good time for me , and none too early . 
Howbeit , it was certainly well for me that your men delayed no longer than they did . 
How knew ye who I was ? demanded the stranger . 
Even now , my lord , Dick answered , I am ignorant of whom I speak with . 
Is it so ? asked the other . 
And yet ye threw yourself head first into this unequal battle . 
I saw one man valiantly contending against many , replied Dick , and I had thought myself dishonoured not to bear him aid . 
A singular sneer played about the young nobleman's mouth as he made answer These are very brave words . 
But to the more essential are ye Lancaster or York ? My lord , I make no secret I am clear for York , Dick answered . 
By the mass ! replied the other , it is well for you . 
And so saying , he turned towards one of his followers . 
Let me see , he continued , in the same sneering and cruel tones let me see a clean end of these brave gentlemen . 
There were but five survivors of the attacking party . 
And now , cried the deformed leader , back to your posts , and when I summon you next , be readier to attend . 
My lord duke , said one man , beseech you , tarry not here alone . 
Keep but a handful of lances at your hand . 
Fellow , said the duke , I have forborne to chide you for your slowness . 
Cross me not , therefore . 
I trust my hand and arm , for all that I be crooked . 
Ye were backward when the trumpet sounded and ye are now too forward with your counsels . 
But it is ever so last with the lance and first with tongue . 
And with a gesture that was not without a sort of dangerous nobility , he waved them off . 
The footmen climbed again to their seats behind the men at arms , and the whole party moved slowly away and disappeared in twenty different directions , under the cover of the forest . 
The day was by this time beginning to break , and the stars to fade . 
The first grey glimmer of dawn shone upon the countenances of the two young men , who now turned once more to face each other . 
Here , said the duke , ye have seen my vengeance , which is , like my blade , both sharp and ready . 
But I would not have you , for all Christendom , suppose me thankless . 
You that came to my aid with a good sword and a better courage unless that ye recoil from my misshapenness come to my heart . 
And so saying , the young leader held out his arms for an embrace . 
And you how call they you ? Dick told him his name , and presented Lord Foxham's signet , which the duke immediately recognised . 
Ye come too soon , he said but why should I complain ? Ye are like me , that was here at watch two hours before the day . 
But this is the first sally of mine arms upon this adventure , Master Shelton , shall I make or mar the quality of my renown . 
Methinks , Shelton , here were a great blow to be stricken , an we could strike it silently and suddenly . 
I do think so , indeed , cried Dick , warming . 
Have ye my Lord Foxham's notes ? inquired the duke . 
And then , Dick , having explained how he was without them for the moment , made himself bold to offer information every jot as good , of his own knowledge . 
And for mine own part , my lord duke , he added , an ye had men enough , I would fall on even at this present . 
For , look ye , at the peep of day the watches of the night are over but by day they keep neither watch nor ward only scour the outskirts with horsemen . 
Now , then , when the night watch is already unarmed , and the rest are at their morning cup now were the time to break them . 
How many do ye count ? asked Gloucester . 
They number not two thousand , Dick replied . 
Shall we attend their coming , or fall on ? My lord , said Dick , when ye hanged these five poor rogues ye did decide the question . 
Churls although they were , in these uneasy , times they will be lacked and looked for , and the alarm be given . 
Therefore , my lord , if ye do count upon the advantage of a surprise , ye have not , in my poor opinion , one whole hour in front of you . 
I do think so indeed , returned Crookback . 
Well , before an hour , ye shall be in the thick on't , winning spurs . 
This time he was not long kept waiting . 
In a moment the open space about the cross was filled with horse and foot . 
The footmen , therefore , were all once more taken up behind the riders , and Dick had the signal honour meted out to him of mounting behind Gloucester himself . 
For as far as there was any cover the troops moved slowly , and when they came near the end of the trees that lined the highway , stopped to breathe and reconnoitre . 
Gloucester turned round to Dick . 
CHAPTER II THE BATTLE OF SHOREBY The whole distance to be crossed was not above a quarter of a mile . 
But they had no sooner debauched beyond the cover of the trees than they were aware of people fleeing and screaming in the snowy meadows upon either hand . 
The young duke ground his teeth together . 
In the town , however , the Lancastrians were far from being in so good a posture . 
It was as Dick had said . 
These got speedily to horse , and , the alarm still flying wild and contrary , galloped in different directions . 
Swerving like a single rider , his whole command turned after him , and , still at the full gallop of the chargers , swept up the narrow bye street . 
The five streets being each secured by a good guard , the reserve would thus occupy the centre , out of shot , and yet ready to carry aid wherever it was needed . 
To Dick he assigned the guard of one of the five streets . 
Go , he said , win your spurs . 
Win glory for me one Richard for another . 
I tell you , if I rise , ye shall rise by the same ladder . 
Go , he added , shaking him by the hand . 
But , as soon as Dick was gone , he turned to a little shabby archer at his elbow . 
Go , Dutton , and that right speedily , he added . 
If ye find him faithful , ye answer for his safety , a head for a head . 
Woe unto you , if ye return without him ! But if he be faithless or , for one instant , ye misdoubt him stab him from behind . 
In the meanwhile Dick hastened to secure his post . 
With the rest , under his own immediate eye , he lined the barricade . 
A large portion of this body were in murrey and blue , and in the mounted knight who ordered their array Dick recognised Sir Daniel Brackley . 
Then there befell a long pause , which was followed by the almost simultaneous sounding of four trumpets from four different quarters of the town . 
The attack had begun , by a common signal , on all the five issues of the quarter . 
Gloucester was beleaguered upon every side and Dick judged , if he would make good his post , he must rely entirely on the hundred men of his command . 
It is from my Lord of Gloucester , said the page . 
He hath observed , Sir Richard , that ye went unarmed . 
Dick , with a glow at his heart at being so addressed , got to his feet and , with the assistance of the page , donned the defensive coat . 
Even as he did so , two arrows rattled harmlessly upon the plates , and a third struck down the page , mortally wounded , at his feet . 
Immediately , from behind the barrier and from the windows of the houses , a counterblast of arrows sped , carrying death . 
Then followed an obstinate and deadly struggle , hand to hand . 
The assailants , wielding their falchions with one hand , strove with the other to drag down the structure of the barricade . 
On the other side , the parts were reversed and the defenders exposed themselves like madmen to protect their rampart . 
So for some minutes the contest raged almost in silence , friend and foe falling one upon another . 
And now the footmen in the market place fell back , at a run , on every side . 
Of the first two horsemen , one fell , rider and steed , and was ridden down by his companions . 
The second leaped clean upon the summit of the rampart , transpiercing an archer with his lance . 
Almost in the same instant he was dragged from the saddle and his horse despatched . 
And then the full weight and impetus of the charge burst upon and scattered the defenders . 
Yet was the fight not over . 
Then , and not till then , did Dick hold up his reeking blade and give the word to cheer . 
Meanwhile Gloucester dismounted from his horse and came forward to inspect the post . 
Despatch these horses , he said they keep you from your vantage . 
Richard Shelton , he added , ye have pleased me . 
And now , Sir Richard , he continued , if that ye see Lord Risingham , send me an express upon the instant . 
Were it your last man , let me hear of it incontinently . 
I had rather venture the post than lose my stroke at him . 
For mark me , all of ye , he added , raising his voice , if Earl Risingham fall by another hand than mine , I shall count this victory a defeat . 
The rest are but feigned onslaughts . 
Howbeit , if ye will , let us ride on and visit the other posts . 
Sir Richard here , my namesake , he shall still hold this entry , where he wadeth to the ankles in hot blood . 
But mark it , Sir Richard , ye are not yet done . 
The worst is yet to ward . 
Dick quailed before his eyes . 
The insane excitement , the courage , and the cruelty that he read therein filled him with dismay about the future . 
Dick , once more left to his own counsels , began to look about him . 
The arrow shot had somewhat slackened . 
On his own side the loss had been cruel . 
At the same time , the day was passing . 
There was a dial in the wall of one of the two flanking houses and this , in the frosty winter sunshine , indicated ten of the forenoon . 
Dick turned to the man who was at his elbow , a little insignificant archer , binding a cut in his arm . 
It was well fought , he said , and , by my sooth , they will not charge us twice . 
Sir , said the little archer , ye have fought right well for York , and better for yourself . 
Never hath man in so brief space prevailed so greatly on the duke's affections . 
That he should have entrusted such a post to one he knew not is a marvel . 
Dick looked at the little man in amaze . 
And from behind ! It is right so , returned the archer and because I like not the affair I tell it you . 
Ye must make the post good , Sir Richard , at your peril . 
O , our Crookback is a bold blade and a good warrior but , whether in cold blood or in hot , he will have all things done exact to his commandment . 
If any fail or hinder , they shall die the death . 
And if he spare not the blood and sweat of others , he is ever liberal of his own , still in the first front of battle , still the last to sleep . 
His sudden favour , he began to perceive , had brought perils in its train . 
And he turned from the archer , and once more scanned anxiously the market place . 
It lay empty as before . 
I like not this quietude , he said . 
Doubtless they prepare us some surprise . 
And , as if in answer to his remark , the archers began once more to advance against the barricade , and the arrows to fall thick . 
But there was something hesitating in the attack . 
They came not on roundly , but seemed rather to await a further signal . 
Dick looked uneasily about him , spying for a hidden danger . 
These , as they leaped down , hurriedly stood to their ranks , bent their bows , and proceeded to pour upon Dick's rear a flight of arrows . 
At the same time , the assailants in the market place redoubled their shot , and began to close in stoutly upon the barricade . 
The men behind him formed the vital flaw in the general defence and it was upon these that Dick turned , charging at the head of his men . 
The Yorkists began to be scattered several times Dick found himself alone among his foes and plying his bright sword for life several times he was conscious of a hurt . 
And meanwhile the fight swayed to and fro in the street without determinate result . 
Suddenly Dick was aware of a great trumpeting about the outskirts of the town . 
The war cry of York began to be rolled up to heaven , as by many and triumphant voices . 
And at the same time the men in front of him began to give ground rapidly , streaming out of the street and back upon the market place . 
Some one gave the word to fly . 
Trumpets were blown distractedly , some for a rally , some to charge . 
It was plain that a great blow had been struck , and the Lancastrians were thrown , at least for the moment , into full disorder , and some degree of panic . 
And then , like a theatre trick , there followed the last act of Shoreby Battle . 
The men in front of Richard turned tail , like a dog that has been whistled home , and fled like the wind . 
Conspicuous in the mellay , Dick beheld the Crookback . 
A moment more and they had met the tall , splendid , and famous warrior against the deformed and sickly boy . 
, had won his first considerable fight . 
But this was not yet the hour for repose . 
Richard of Gloucester was not the captain to protect the citizens from his infuriated soldiery and even if he had the will , it might be questioned if he had the power . 
It was , therefore , Dick's business to find and to protect Joanna and with that end he looked about him at the faces of his men . 
Sir Daniel's great house had been carried by assault . 
The gates hung in splinters from the hinges , and a double throng kept pouring in and out through the entrance , seeking and carrying booty . 
The most sickening apprehension fell upon Dick . 
Dick , almost without thinking , trod out the incipient conflagration , and then stood bewildered . 
Fellow , he asked , were ye here when this house was taken ? Let be , said the archer . 
A murrain ! let be , or I strike . 
Hark ye , returned Richard , two can play at that . 
But the man , flushed with drink and battle , struck Dick upon the shoulder with one hand , while with the other he twitched away his garment . 
Thereupon the full wrath of the young leader burst from his control . 
I pray you mercy ! gasped the archer . 
An I had thought ye were so angry I would 'a' been charier of crossing you . 
Know ye Sir Daniel ? pursued Dick . 
Well do I know him , returned the man . 
Was he in the mansion ? Ay , sir , he was , answered the archer but even as we entered by the yard gate he rode forth by the garden . 
He may 'a' had a score of lances with him , said the man . 
Lances ! No women , then ? asked Shelton . 
Troth , I saw not , said the archer . 
But there were none in the house , if that be your quest . 
I thank you , said Dick . 
Here is a piece for your pains . 
But groping in his wallet , Dick found nothing . 
Inquire for me to morrow , he added Richard Shelt Sir Richard Shelton , he corrected , and I will see you handsomely rewarded . 
And then an idea struck Dick . 
He hastily descended to the courtyard , ran with all his might across the garden , and came to the great door of the church . 
Even as Dick entered , the loud chorus began to thunder in the vaulted roofs . 
He hurried through the groups of refugees , and came to the door of the stair that led into the steeple . 
And here a tall churchman stepped before him and arrested his advance . 
Whither , my son ? he asked , severely . 
My father , answered Dick , I am here upon an errand of expedition . 
I command here for my Lord of Gloucester . 
For my Lord of Gloucester ? repeated the priest . 
And now , with your good leave , I follow mine affairs . 
Shoreby Church tower not only commanded the town , as in a map , but looked far , on both sides , over sea and land . 
It was now near upon noon the day exceeding bright , the snow dazzling . 
And as Dick looked around him , he could measure the consequences of the battle . 
A confused , growling uproar reached him from the streets , and now and then , but very rarely , the clash of steel . 
Not a ship , not so much as a skiff remained in harbour but the sea was dotted with sails and row boats laden with fugitives . 
Over all the open ground there lay a prodigious quantity of fallen men and horses , clearly defined upon the snow . 
In that quarter , also , one or two houses had been fired , and the smoke towered high in the frosty sunlight , and blew off to sea in voluminous folds . 
Already close upon the margin of the woods , and somewhat in the line of Holywood , one particular clump of fleeing horsemen riveted the attention of the young watcher on the tower . 
Murrey and blue ! cried Dick . 
I swear it murrey and blue ! The next moment he was descending the stairway . 
Sir Richard Shelton , ye are well found , he said . 
I owe you one thing that I value little , my life and one that I can never pay you for , this victory . 
Catesby , if I had ten such captains as Sir Richard , I would march forthright on London . 
But now , sir , claim your reward . 
Freely , my lord , said Dick , freely and loudly . 
One hath escaped to whom I owe some grudges , and taken with him one whom I owe love and service . 
Give me , then , fifty lances , that I may pursue and for any obligation that your graciousness is pleased to allow , it shall be clean discharged . 
How call ye him ? inquired the duke . 
Sir Daniel Brackley , answered Richard . 
Out upon him , double face ! cried Gloucester . 
Here is no reward , Sir Richard here is fresh service offered , and , if that ye bring his head to me , a fresh debt upon my conscience . 
Catesby , get him these lances and you , sir , bethink ye , in the meanwhile , what pleasure , honour , or profit it shall be mine to give you . 
Just then the Yorkist skirmishers carried one of the shoreside taverns , swarming in upon it on three sides , and driving out or taking its defenders . 
Crookback Dick was pleased to cheer the exploit , and pushing his horse a little nearer , called to see the prisoners . 
The young duke passed them for a moment under a severe review . 
And he turned the other way to watch the progress of the fight . 
My lord , said Dick , so please you , I have found my reward . 
Grant me the life and liberty of yon old shipman . 
Gloucester turned and looked the speaker in the face . 
Sir Richard , he said , I make not war with peacock's feathers , but steel shafts . 
Those that are mine enemies I slay , and that without excuse or favour . 
If , then , I did begin to grant these pardons , I might sheathe my sword . 
It may be so , my lord and yet I will be overbold , and at the risk of your disfavour , recall your lordship's promise , replied Dick . 
Mark it right well , he said , harshly . 
I love not mercy , nor yet mercymongers . 
Ye have this day laid the foundations of high fortune . 
If ye oppose to me my word , which I have plighted , I will yield . 
But , by the glory of heaven , there your favour dies ! Mine is the loss , said Dick . 
Give him his sailor , said the duke and wheeling his horse , he turned his back upon young Shelton . 
Dick was nor glad nor sorry . 
One thing alone he feared that the vindictive leader might revoke the offer of the lances . 
nor , above all , to his decision . 
In the meanwhile , Dick turned to the old shipman , who had seemed equally indifferent to his condemnation and to his subsequent release . 
Arblaster , said Dick , I have done you ill but now , by the rood , I think I have cleared the score . 
But the old skipper only looked upon him dully and held his peace . 
Come , continued Dick , a life is a life , old shrew , and it is more than ships or liquor . 
Say ye forgive me for if your life be worth nothing to you , it hath cost me the beginnings of my fortune . 
Come , I have paid for it dearly be not so churlish . 
An I had had my ship , said Arblaster , I would 'a' been forth and safe on the high seas I and my man Tom . 
But ye took my ship , gossip , and I'm a beggar and for my man Tom , a knave fellow in russet shot him down . 
'Murrain ! quoth he , and spake never again . 
'Murrain' was the last of his words , and the poor spirit of him passed . 
'A will never sail no more , will my Tom . 
Dick was seized with unavailing penitence and pity he sought to take the skipper's hand , but Arblaster avoided his touch . 
Nay , said he , let be . 
Y' have played the devil with me , and let that content you . 
The words died in Richard's throat . 
But there was no time left to him for vain regret . 
Catesby had now collected the horsemen , and riding up to Dick he dismounted , and offered him his own horse . 
Suffer me yet a moment , replied Dick . 
This favour of mine whereupon was it founded ? Upon your name , answered Catesby . 
It is my lord's chief superstition . 
Were my name Richard , I should be an earl to morrow . 
Well , sir , I thank you , returned Dick and since I am little likely to follow these great fortunes , I will even say farewell . 
I will not pretend I was displeased to think myself upon the road to fortune but I will not pretend , neither , that I am over sorry to be done with it . 
Command and riches , they are brave things , to be sure but a word in your ear yon duke of yours , he is a fearsome lad . 
Nay , said he , of a verity he that rides with Crooked Dick will ride deep . 
Well , God keep us all from evil ! Speed ye well . 
Thereupon Dick put himself at the head of his men , and giving the word of command , rode off . 
He made straight across the town , following what he supposed to be the route of Sir Daniel , and spying around for any signs that might decide if he were right . 
The streets were strewn with the dead and the wounded , whose fate , in the bitter frost , was far the more pitiable . 
Gangs of the victors went from house to house , pillaging and stabbing , and sometimes singing together as they went . 
Dick's heart had just been awakened . 
He had just seen the cruel consequences of his own behaviour and the thought of the sum of misery that was now acting in the whole of Shoreby filled him with despair . 
Here , then , he went the faster on but still , as he rode , he kept a bright eye upon the fallen men and horses that lay beside the track . 
Many of these , he was relieved to see , wore Sir Daniel's colours , and the faces of some , who lay upon their back , he even recognised . 
And here Dick spied among the rest the body of a very young lad , whose face was somehow hauntingly familiar to him . 
He halted his troop , dismounted , and raised the lad's head . 
As he did so , the hood fell back , and a profusion of long brown hair unrolled itself . 
At the same time the eyes opened . 
Ah ! lion driver ! said a feeble voice . 
Ride ride fast ! And then the poor young lady fainted once again . 
One of Dick's men carried a flask of some strong cordial , and with this Dick succeeded in reviving consciousness . 
Then he took Joanna's friend upon his saddlebow , and once more pushed toward the forest . 
Why do ye take me ? said the girl . 
Ye but delay your speed . 
Nay , Mistress Risingham , replied Dick . 
Shoreby is full of blood and drunkenness and riot . 
Here ye are safe content ye . 
I will not be beholden to any of your faction , she cried set me down . 
Madam , ye know not what ye say , returned Dick . 
Y' are hurt I am not , she said . 
It was my horse was slain . 
It matters not one jot , replied Richard . 
Ye are here in the midst of open snow , and compassed about with enemies . 
Whether ye will or not , I carry you with me . 
Glad am I to have the occasion for thus shall I repay some portion of our debt . 
For a little while she was silent . 
Then , very suddenly , she asked My uncle ? My Lord Risingham ? returned Dick . 
I would I had good news to give you , madam but I have none . 
I saw him once in the battle , and once only . 
Let us hope the best . 
At this point Sir Daniel had turned a little to his left , and then plunged straight under a grove of very lofty timber . 
His party had then formed to a narrower front , in order to pass between the trees , and the track was trod proportionally deeper in the snow . 
Ye are , doubtless , right , returned Dick but we came right hastily upon the errand , even as the time commanded . 
Here are no houses , neither for food nor shelter , and by the morrow's dawn we shall know both cold fingers and an empty belly . 
The men answered , almost with one voice , that they would follow Sir Richard where he would . 
And Dick , setting spur to his horse , began once more to go forward . 
The snow in the trail had been trodden very hard , and the pursuers had thus a great advantage over the pursued . 
Plainly , profiting by the road , Sir Daniel had begun already to scatter his command . 
Dick drew bridle in despair . 
Well , we are outwitted , Dick confessed . 
Strike we for Holywood , after all . 
It is still nearer us than Tunstall or should be by the station of the sun . 
So they wheeled to their left , turning their backs on the red shield of sun , and made across country for the abbey . 
Now they must plough at a dull pace through the encumbering snow , continually pausing to decide their course , continually floundering in drifts . 
The sun soon left them the glow of the west decayed and presently they were wandering in a shadow of blackness , under frosty stars . 
Presently , indeed , the moon would clear the hilltops , and they might resume their march . 
But till then , every random step might carry them wider of their march . 
There was nothing for it but to camp and wait . 
Sentries were posted a spot of ground was cleared of snow , and , after some failures , a good fire blazed in the midst . 
She sat upon one horse cloth , wrapped in another , and stared straight before her at the firelit scene . 
At the offer of food she started , like one wakened from a dream , and then silently refused . 
Madam , said Dick , let me beseech you , punish me not so cruelly . 
At least , madam , punish not yourself and eat , if not for hunger , then for strength . 
I will eat nothing at the hands that slew my kinsman , she replied . 
Dear madam , Dick cried , I swear to you upon the rood I touched him not . 
Swear to me that he still lives , she returned . 
I will not palter with you , answered Dick . 
Pity bids me to wound you . 
In my heart I do believe him dead . 
And ye ask me to eat ! she cried . 
Ay , and they call you 'sir ! Y' have won your spurs by my good kinsman's murder . 
I did but my man's best , even as your kinsman did upon the other party , answered Dick . 
Were he still living as I vow to Heaven I wish it ! he would praise , not blame me . 
Sir Daniel hath told me , she replied . 
He marked you at the barricade . 
Upon you , he saith , their party foundered it was you that won the battle . 
Well , then , it was you that killed my good Lord Risingham , as sure as though ye had strangled him . 
And ye would have me eat with you and your hands not washed from killing ? But Sir Daniel hath sworn your downfall . 
He 'tis that will avenge me ! The unfortunate Dick was plunged in gloom . 
Old Arblaster returned upon his mind , and he groaned aloud . 
Do ye hold me so guilty ? he said you that defended me you that are Joanna's friend ? What made ye in the battle ? she retorted . 
But as the realm of England goes , if that a poor gentleman fight not upon the one side , perforce he must fight upon the other . 
He may not stand alone 'tis not in nature . 
They that have no judgment should not draw the sword , replied the young lady . 
Ye that fight but for a hazard , what are ye but a butcher ? War is but noble by the cause , and y' have disgraced it . 
Madam , said the miserable Dick , I do partly see mine error . 
I have made too much haste I have been busy before my time . 
And what besides , I know not . 
For , alas ! I may have set York upon the throne , and that may be the worser cause , and may do hurt to England . 
O , madam , I do see my sin . 
I am unfit for life . 
I will , for penance sake and to avoid worse evil , once I have finished this adventure , get me to a cloister . 
I will forswear Joanna and the trade of arms . 
I will be a friar , and pray for your good kinsman's spirit all my days . 
It appeared to Dick , in this extremity of his humiliation and repentance , that the young lady had laughed . 
Raising his countenance , he found her looking down upon him , in the fire light , with a somewhat peculiar but not unkind expression . 
And all this upon the very day that I have won my spurs , and thought myself the happiest young gentleman on ground . 
A pitiful bewilderment came over simple minded Dick . 
But come , she said , with great cheerfulness , you that are a captain , ye must eat . 
I were better to fast , dear lady , and to pray . 
By the moon's light , the still penitent but now well fed Richard beheld her looking somewhat coquettishly down upon him . 
Madam he stammered , surprised at this new turn in her manners . 
Ye are something smallish , indeed began Dick . 
And here again she interrupted him , this time with a ringing peal of laughter that completed his confusion and surprise . 
And a man would be right glad to wed me ? she pursued . 
O , madam , right glad ! agreed Dick . 
Call me Alicia , said she . 
Alicia , quoth Sir Richard . 
Although , upon my heart , I do hold me but partially guilty of that brave knight's blood . 
Would ye evade me ? she cried . 
I have told you at your bidding , I will even turn me a monk , said Richard . 
Then , in honour , ye belong to me ? she concluded . 
In honour , madam , I suppose began the young man . 
Go to ! she interrupted ye are too full of catches . 
In honour do ye belong to me , till ye have paid the evil ? In honour , I do , said Dick . 
Nay , now , no words ! cried she . 
They will avail you nothing . 
For see how just it is , that you who deprived me of one home , should supply me with another . 
Pardon me if I speak my plain thoughts plainly but where a maid is very bold , a poor man must even be the bolder . 
Dick , she said , ye sweet boy , ye must come and kiss me for that word . 
Nay , fear not , ye shall kiss me for Joanna and when we meet , I shall give it back to her , and say I stole it . 
DICK AND JOAN The horses had by this time finished the small store of provender , and fully breathed from their fatigues . 
Hence he could look far abroad on the moonlit and snow paven forest . 
On the south west , dark against the horizon , stood those upland , heathy quarters where he and Joanna had met with the terrifying misadventure of the leper . 
And there his eye was caught by a spot of ruddy brightness no bigger than a needle's eye . 
He blamed himself sharply for his previous neglect . 
But now he must no longer squander valuable hours . 
In the vast silence of the wood , the lightest sounds were audible from far and Alicia , who was keen of hearing , held up her finger warningly and stooped to listen . 
But yet , for sure , I heard the clash of harness , whispered Alicia . 
It came from westward , she declared . 
It may be what it will , returned Dick and it must be as heaven please . 
Reck we not a jot , but push on the livelier , and put it to the touch . 
Up , friends enough breathed . 
Presently they could see the smoke pouring from among the trees , ruddily coloured on its lower edge and scattering bright sparks . 
And here , pursuant to Dick's orders , his men began to open out , creeping stealthily in the covert , to surround on every side the camp of their opponents . 
He himself , placing Alicia in the shelter of a bulky oak , stole straight forth in the direction of the fire . 
At last , through an opening of the wood , his eye embraced the scene of the encampment . 
The fire had been built upon a heathy hummock of the ground , surrounded on three sides by thicket , and it now burned very strong , roaring aloud and brandishing flames . 
Around it there sat not quite a dozen people , warmly cloaked but though the neighbouring snow was trampled down as by a regiment , Dick looked in vain for any horse . 
He began to have a terrible misgiving that he was out manoeuvred . 
Bennet , at the sound , started to his feet but ere he had time to spring upon his arms , Dick hailed him . 
Bennet , he said Bennet , old friend , yield ye . 
Ye will but spill men's lives in vain , if ye resist . 
'Tis Master Shelton , by St . 
Yield me ? Ye ask much . 
What force have ye ? I tell you , Bennet , ye are both outnumbered and begirt , said Dick . 
Caesar and Charlemagne would cry for quarter . 
I have two score men at my whistle , and with one shoot of arrows I could answer for you all . 
Master Dick , said Bennet , it goes against my heart but I must do my duty . 
The saints help you ! And therewith he raised a little tucket to his mouth and wound a rousing call . 
In the hurry of their change of place , Joanna sprang from her seat and ran like an arrow to her lover's side . 
Here , Dick ! she cried , as she clasped his hand in hers . 
But Dick still stood irresolute he was yet young to the more deplorable necessities of war , and the thought of old Lady Brackley checked the command upon his tongue . 
His own men became restive . 
Some of them cried on him by name others , of their own accord , began to shoot and at the first discharge poor Bennet bit the dust . 
Shoot , boys , and keep to cover . 
At the same time , answering tuckets repeated and repeated Hatch's call . 
Rally , rally ! cried Dick . 
Dick stood for a moment , bitterly recognising the fruits of his precipitate and unwise valour . 
Sir Daniel had seen the fire he had moved out with his main force , whether to attack his pursuers or to take them in the rear if they should venture the assault . 
His had been throughout the part of a sagacious captain Dick's the conduct of an eager boy . 
The saints enlighten me ! he thought . 
It is well I was knighted for this morning's matter this doth me little honour . 
And thereupon , still holding Joanna , he began to run . 
Nay , Dick , said Joanna , what matters it ? Here we are together once again . 
He looked at her , and there she was John Matcham , as of yore , in hose and doublet . 
But now he knew her now , even in that ungainly dress , she smiled upon him , bright with love and his heart was transported with joy . 
Sweetheart , he said , if ye forgive this blunderer , what care I ? Make we direct for Holywood there lieth your good guardian and my better friend , Lord Foxham . 
Then , first , I fell out of my favour with the great and now have I been well thrashed , and clean lost my soldiers . 
My Dick ! she cried . 
Ay , sir ? Methought ye were to be a monk ! said a voice in their ears . 
Even so , replied the young lady , coming forward . 
Dick ! Dick ! mimicked Alicia . 
Dick , indeed ! Ay , fair sir , and ye desert poor damsels in distress , she continued , turning to the young knight . 
Ye leave them planted behind oaks . 
But they say true the age of chivalry is dead . 
Madam , cried Dick , in despair , upon my soul I had forgotten you outright . 
Madam , ye must try to pardon me . 
Ye see , I had new found Joanna ! I did not suppose that ye had done it o' purpose , she retorted . 
But I will be cruelly avenged . 
I will tell a secret to my Lady Shelton she that is to be , she added , curtseying . 
But did my Dick make love to you ? asked Joanna , clinging to her sweetheart's side . 
Nay , fool girl , returned Alicia it was I made love to him . 
I offered to marry him , indeed but he bade me go marry with my likes . 
Nay , that I will say he is more plain than pleasant . 
But now , children , for the sake of sense , set forward . 
But how think ye ? If the men , upon the alarm of the fighting , had fled away , we should have gone about for nothing . 
But in these young folk , bred among the alarms of war , and fresh from such a multiplicity of dangers , neither fear nor pity could be lightly wakened . 
At length , from a rising hill , they looked below them on the dell of Holywood . 
All about it , in the open glade , camp fires were burning , and the ground was thick with huts and across the midst of the picture the frozen river curved . 
By the mass , said Richard , there are Lord Foxham's fellows still encamped . 
The messenger hath certainly miscarried . 
Well , then , so better . 
We have power at hand to face Sir Daniel . 
But if Lord Foxham's men still lay encamped in the long holm at Holywood , it was from a different reason from the one supposed by Dick . 
Dick , not quite with his good will , was brought before them . 
How , sir ? asked Richard . 
I have been , so please your grace , well beaten . 
Gloucester looked upon him with a formidable frown . 
I gave you fifty lances , sir , he said . 
My lord duke , I had but fifty men at arms , replied the young knight . 
How is this ? said Gloucester . 
He did ask me fifty lances . 
May it please your grace , replied Catesby , smoothly , for a pursuit we gave him but the horsemen . 
It is well , replied Richard , adding , Shelton , ye may go . 
Stay ! said Lord Foxham . 
This young man likewise had a charge from me . 
It may be he hath better sped . 
Say , Master Shelton , have ye found the maid ? I praise the saints , my lord , said Dick , she is in this house . 
This young squire Young knight , interrupted Catesby . 
Say ye so , Sir William ? cried Lord Foxham . 
I did myself , and for good service , dub him knight , said Gloucester . 
He hath twice manfully served me . 
It is not valour of hands , it is a man's mind of iron , that he lacks . 
He will not rise , Lord Foxham . 
'Tis a fellow that will fight indeed bravely in a mellay , but hath a capon's heart . 
Content ye , then , Sir Richard . 
I have compounded this affair with Master Hamley , and to morrow ye shall wed . 
Victory , my lord , he cried . 
His thoughts were both quiet and happy . 
He turned to go home but even as he turned , his eye lit upon a figure behind , a tree . 
Who goes ? The figure stepped forth and waved its hand like a dumb person . 
It was arrayed like a pilgrim , the hood lowered over the face , but Dick , in an instant , recognised Sir Daniel . 
He strode up to him , drawing his sword and the knight , putting his hand in his bosom , as if to seize a hidden weapon , steadfastly awaited his approach . 
Nay self defence , replied the knight . 
And now , boy , the news of this battle , and the presence of yon crooked devil here in mine own wood , have broken me beyond all help . 
I go to Holywood for sanctuary thence overseas , with what I can carry , and to begin life again in Burgundy or France . 
Ye may not go to Holywood , said Dick . 
How ! May not ? asked the knight . 
Look ye , Sir Daniel , this is my marriage morn , said Dick and yon sun that is to rise will make the brightest day that ever shone for me . 
Your life is forfeit doubly forfeit , for my father's death and your own practices to meward . 
But I myself have done amiss I have brought about men's deaths and upon this glad day I will be neither judge nor hangman . 
An ye were the devil , I would not lay a hand on you . 
An ye were the devil , ye might go where ye will for me . 
Seek God's forgiveness mine ye have freely . 
But to go on to Holywood is different . 
I carry arms for York , and I will suffer no spy within their lines . 
Hold it , then , for certain , if ye set one foot before another , I will uplift my voice and call the nearest post to seize you . 
Ye mock me , said Sir Daniel . 
I have no safety out of Holywood . 
I care no more , returned Richard . 
I let you go east , west , or south north I will not . 
Holywood is shut against you . 
Go , and seek not to return . 
Ye doom me , said Sir Daniel , gloomily . 
I doom you not , returned Richard . 
So shall I avenge my father , with a perfect conscience . 
Ay , said Sir Daniel , y' have a long sword against my dagger . 
I rely upon Heaven only , answered Dick , casting his sword some way behind him on the snow . 
Now , if your ill fate bids you , come and , under the pleasure of the Almighty , I make myself bold to feed your bones to foxes . 
I did but try you , Dickon , returned the knight , with an uneasy semblance of a laugh . 
I would not spill your blood . 
Go , then , ere it be too late , replied Shelton . 
In five minutes I will call the post . 
I do perceive that I am too long suffering . 
Had but our places been reversed , I should have been bound hand and foot some minutes past . 
Well , Dickon , I will go , replied Sir Daniel . 
When we next meet , it shall repent you that ye were so harsh . 
And with these words , the knight turned and began to move off under the trees . 
There was upon one side of where he went a thicket , strongly matted with green ivy , and , even in its winter state , impervious to the eye . 
Herein , all of a sudden , a bow sounded like a note of music . 
An arrow flew , and with a great , choked cry of agony and anger , the Knight of Tunstall threw up his hands and fell forward in the snow . 
Dick bounded to his side and raised him . 
His face desperately worked his whole body was shaken by contorting spasms . 
Is the arrow black ? he gasped . 
It is black , replied Dick , gravely . 
At length he , also , rose , and showed the countenance of Ellis Duckworth . 
Richard , he said , very gravely , I heard you . 
Ye took the better part and pardoned I took the worse , and there lies the clay of mine enemy . 
And he wrung him by the hand . 
Sir , said Richard , I will pray for you , indeed though how I may prevail I wot not . 
But for the priest , if I might anywise prevail , I would have you let him go . 
A flash came into the eyes of Ellis Duckworth . 
Nay , he said , the devil is still strong within me . 
But be at rest the Black Arrow flieth nevermore the fellowship is broken . 
Is this the maid ? he asked and when Lord Foxham had replied in the affirmative , Minion , he added , hold up your face until I see its favour . 
He looked upon her sourly for a little . 
Ye are fair , he said at last , and , as they tell me , dowered . 
How so ? he asked , harshly . 
Marry but the man I name to you , and he shall be my lord , and you my lady , before night . 
For Sir Richard , let me tell you plainly , he will die Sir Richard . 
I ask no more of Heaven , my lord , than but to die Sir Richard's wife , returned Joanna . 
Look ye at that , my lord , said Gloucester , turning to Lord Foxham . 
Here be a pair for you . 
The lad , when for good services I gave him his choice of my favour , chose but the grace of an old , drunken shipman . 
I did warn him freely , but he was stout in his besottedness . 
'Here dieth your favour , said I and he , my lord , with a most assured impertinence , 'Mine be the loss , quoth he . 
It shall be so , by the rood ! Said he so ? cried Alicia . 
Then well said , lion driver ! Who is this ? asked the duke . 
A prisoner of Sir Richard's , answered Lord Foxham Mistress Alicia Risingham . 
See that she be married to a sure man , said the duke . 
I had thought of my kinsman , Hamley , an it like your grace , returned Lord Foxham . 
He hath well served the cause . 
It likes me well , said Richard . 
Let them be wedded speedily . 
He is straight , my mistress , replied Richard , calmly . 
I am the only crookback of my party we are else passably well shapen . 
Ladies , and you , my lord , he added , with a sudden change to grave courtesy , judge me not too churlish if I leave you . 
A captain , in the time of war , hath not the ordering of his hours . 
And with a very handsome salutation he passed on , followed by his officers . 
Alack , cried Alicia , I am shent ! Ye know him not , replied Lord Foxham . 
It is but a trifle he hath already clean forgot your words . 
He is , then , the very flower of knighthood , said Alicia . 
Nay , he but mindeth other things , returned Lord Foxham . 
In the chancel they found Dick waiting , attended by a few young men and there were he and Joan united . 
But the wedding party turned upon the other side , and sat down , with sober merriment , to breakfast . 
The father cellarer attended on their wants , and sat with them at table . 
Hamley , all jealousy forgotten , began to ply the nowise loth Alicia with courtship . 
Thenceforth the dust and blood of that unruly epoch passed them by . 
They dwelt apart from alarms in the green forest where their love began . 
Two old men in the meanwhile enjoyed pensions in great prosperity and peace , and with perhaps a superfluity of ale and wine , in Tunstall hamlet . 
One had been all his life a shipman , and continued to the last to lament his man Tom . 
So Lawless had his will , and died a friar . 
At the date of this story , Richard Crookback could not have been created Duke of Gloucester but for clearness , with the reader's leave , he shall so be called . 
Richard Crookback would have been really far younger at this date . 
Technically , the term lance included a not quite certain number of foot soldiers attached to the man at arms . 
