Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
But , though the gardeners were many and the soil was good , this garden yielded neither flowers nor fruits , not even grass or shady trees . 
Come with us and be gardener to the King , they said to him . 
How can I go to the King , said the gardener , a poor wretch like me ? That is of no consequence , they answered . 
Here are new clothes for you and your family . 
But I owe money to several people . 
We will pay your debts , they said . 
Now this princess was wonderfully pretty and was just sixteen years old , and the King was beginning to think it was time that she should be married . 
My dear child , said he , you are of an age to take a husband , therefore I am thinking of marrying you to the son of my prime minister . 
Father , replied the Princess , I will never marry the son of the minister . 
Why not ? asked the King . 
Because I love the gardener's son , answered the Princess . 
Then the King consulted his ministers . 
This is what you must do , they said . 
To get rid of the gardener you must send both suitors to a very distant country , and the one who returns first shall marry your daughter . 
The day before they started the Princess met her lover and said to him Be brave , and remember always that I love you . 
Take this purse full of jewels and make the best use you can of them for love of me , and come back quickly and demand my hand . 
He traveled on for some days , and presently reached a fountain beside which an old woman all in rags sat upon a stone . 
Good day to you , young traveler , said she . 
But the minister's son made no reply . 
Have pity upon me , traveler , she said again . 
I am dying of hunger , as you see , and three days have I been here and no one has given me anything . 
Let me alone , old witch , cried the young man I can do nothing for you , and so saying he went on his way . 
That same evening the gardener's son rode up to the fountain upon his lame gray horse . 
Good day to you , young traveler , said the beggar woman . 
Good day , good woman , answered he . 
Young traveler , have pity upon me . 
Take my purse , good woman , said he , and mount behind me , for your legs can't be very strong . 
The old woman didn't wait to be asked twice , but mounted behind him , and in this style they reached the chief city of a powerful kingdom . 
The minister's son was lodged in a grand inn , the gardener's son and the old woman dismounted at the inn for beggars . 
He will give a great reward to whoever will cure him and give him back the strength of his youth . 
Then the old beggar woman said to her benefactor This is what you must do to obtain the reward which the King promises . 
You must kill them and then burn them separately , and gather up the ashes . 
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . 
Then arrange the bones in their proper places , and throw over them the ashes out of the three bags . 
The King will come back to life , and will be just as he was when he was twenty years old . 
For your reward you must demand the bronze ring which has the power to grant you everything you desire . 
Go , my son , and do not forget any of my instructions . 
The young man followed the old beggar woman's directions . 
On going out of the town he found the white , red , and black dogs , and killed and burnt them , gathering the ashes in three bags . 
Then he ran to the palace and cried A celebrated physician has just come from Janina in Albania . 
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . 
The King's physicians at first laughed at the unknown wayfarer , but the Sultan ordered that the stranger should be admitted . 
They brought the cauldron and the loads of wood , and very soon the King was boiling away . 
How can I reward you , my benefactor ? he cried . 
Will you take half my treasures ? No , said the gardener's son . 
My daughter's hand ? NO . 
No. Give me only the bronze ring which can instantly grant me anything I wish for . 
Alas ! said the King , I set great store by that marvelous ring nevertheless , you shall have it . 
And he gave it to him . 
The gardener's son went back to say good by to the old beggar woman then he said to the bronze ring Prepare a splendid ship in which I may continue my journey . 
Let the hull be of fine gold , the masts of silver , the sails of brocade let the crew consist of twelve young men of noble appearance , dressed like kings . 
Nicholas will be at the helm . 
As to the cargo , let it be diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and carbuncles . 
And immediately a ship appeared upon the sea which resembled in every particular THE DESCRIPTION GIVEN BY THE GARDENER'S SON , and , stepping on board , he continued his journey . 
Presently he arrived at a great town and established himself in a wonderful palace . 
After several days he met his rival , the minister's son , who had spent all his money and was reduced to the disagreeable employment of a carrier of dust and rubbish . 
Listen to me though I don't know anything more about you , I am willing to help you . 
I will give you a ship to take you back to your own country upon one condition . 
Whatever it may be , I accept it willingly . 
Follow me to my palace . 
The minister's son followed the rich stranger , whom he had not recognized . 
When they reached the palace the gardener's son made a sign to his slaves , who completely undressed the new comer . 
Make this ring red hot , commanded the master , and mark the man with it upon his back . 
Now , young man , said the rich stranger , I am going to give you a vessel which will take you back to your own country . 
And , going out , he took the bronze ring and said Bronze ring , obey thy master . 
Prepare me a ship of which the half rotten timbers shall be painted black , let the sails be in rags , and the sailors infirm and sickly . 
Go , and let my orders be executed . 
The minister's son embarked in this old vessel , and thanks to favorable winds , at length reached his own country . 
In spite of the pitiable condition in which he returned they received him joyfully . 
I am the first to come back , said he to the King now fulfil your promise , and give me the princess in marriage . 
So they at once began to prepare for the wedding festivities . 
As to the poor princess , she was sorrowful and angry enough about it . 
The next morning , at daybreak , a wonderful ship with every sail set came to anchor before the town . 
The King happened at that moment to be at the palace window . 
Nicholas at the helm ? Go at once and invite the captain of the ship to come to the palace . 
His servants obeyed him , and very soon in came an enchantingly handsome young prince , dressed in rich silk , ornamented with pearls and diamonds . 
Young man , said the King , you are welcome , whoever you may be . 
Do me the favor to be my guest as long as you remain in my capital . 
Many thanks , sire , replied the captain , I accept your offer . 
My daughter is about to be married , said the King will you give her away ? I shall be charmed , sire . 
Soon after came the Princess and her betrothed . 
The man she is betrothed to is one of my servants . 
Your servant ? Without doubt . 
I met him in a distant town reduced to carrying away dust and rubbish from the houses . 
I had pity on him and engaged him as one of my servants . 
It is impossible ! cried the King . 
It is quite true , said the King . 
It is false , cried the minister's son . 
The King was about to give this order , when the minister's son , to save himself from such an indignity , admitted that the story was true . 
Young man , you shall be my son in law , cried the King . 
The marriage festivities are already begun , so you shall marry my daughter this very day . 
And so that very day the gardener's son married the beautiful Princess . 
The young couple were as happy as the day was long , and the King was more and more pleased with himself for having secured such a son in law . 
But , presently , the captain of the golden ship found it necessary to take a long voyage , and after embracing his wife tenderly he embarked . 
Now in the outskirts of the capital there lived an old man , who had spent his life in studying black arts alchemy , astrology , magic , and enchantment . 
This man found out that the gardener's son had only succeeded in marrying the Princess by the help of the genii who obeyed the bronze ring . 
I will have that ring , said he to himself . 
So he went down to the sea shore and caught some little red fishes . 
Really , they were quite wonderfully pretty . 
A bronze ring , old simpleton ! And where shall I find one ? Under the cushion in the Princess's room . 
The slave went back to her mistress . 
The old madman will take neither gold nor silver , said she . 
What does he want then ? A bronze ring that is hidden under a cushion . 
Find the ring and give it to him , said the Princess . 
Hardly had he reached his own house when , taking the ring , he said , Bronze ring , obey thy master . 
I desire that the golden ship shall turn to black wood , and the crew to hideous negroes that St . 
Nicholas shall leave the helm and that the only cargo shall be black cats . 
And the genii of the bronze ring obeyed him . 
Alas ! he said to himself , whoever has taken my ring has probably taken my dear wife also . 
After wandering about a long time he reached an island inhabited by mice . 
The captain landed upon the shore and began to explore the country . 
There were mice everywhere , and nothing but mice . 
Some of the black cats had followed him , and , not having been fed for several days , they were fearfully hungry , and made terrible havoc among the mice . 
Then the queen of the mice held a council . 
These cats will eat every one of us , she said , if the captain of the ship does not shut the ferocious animals up . 
Let us send a deputation to him of the bravest among us . 
Several mice offered themselves for this mission and set out to find the young captain . 
Captain , said they , go away quickly from our island , or we shall perish , every mouse of us . 
Willingly , replied the young captain , upon one condition . 
That is that you shall first bring me back a bronze ring which some clever magician has stolen from me . 
If you do not do this I will land all my cats upon your island , and you shall be exterminated . 
The mice withdrew in great dismay . 
What is to be done ? said the Queen . 
How can we find this bronze ring ? She held a new council , calling in mice from every quarter of the globe , but nobody knew where the bronze ring was . 
Suddenly three mice arrived from a very distant country . 
One was blind , the second lame , and the third had her ears cropped . 
Ho , ho , ho ! said the new comers . 
We come from a far distant country . 
Go and take it from him , and come back as soon as possible . 
So the three mice made themselves a boat and set sail for the magician's country . 
When they reached the capital they landed and ran to the palace , leaving only the blind mouse on the shore to take care of the boat . 
Then they waited till it was night . 
The wicked old man lay down in bed and put the bronze ring into his mouth , and very soon he was asleep . 
Now , what shall we do ? said the two little animals to each other . 
The mouse with the cropped ears found a lamp full of oil and a bottle full of pepper . 
So she dipped her tail first in the oil and then in the pepper , and held it to the sorcerer's nose . 
Atisha ! atisha ! sneezed the old man , but he did not wake , and the shock made the bronze ring jump out of his mouth . 
Quick as thought the lame mouse snatched up the precious talisman and carried it off to the boat . 
Imagine the despair of the magician when he awoke and the bronze ring was nowhere to be found ! But by that time our three mice had set sail with their prize . 
A favoring breeze was carrying them toward the island where the queen of the mice was awaiting them . 
Naturally they began to talk about the bronze ring . 
Which of us deserves the most credit ? they cried all at once . 
I do , said the blind mouse , for without my watchfulness our boat would have drifted away to the open sea . 
No , indeed , cried the mouse with the cropped ears the credit is mine . 
Did I not cause the ring to jump out of the man's mouth ? No , it is mine , cried the lame one , for I ran off with the ring . 
And from high words they soon came to blows , and , alas ! when the quarrel was fiercest the bronze ring fell into the sea . 
No sooner said than done . 
The boat reached the island , and the mice landed . 
At her cries the other two mice ran up . 
It is the bronze ring ! It is the talisman ! they cried joyfully , and , getting into their boat again , they soon reached the mouse island . 
It was time they did , for the captain was just going to land his cargo of cats , when a deputation of mice brought him the precious bronze ring . 
Bronze ring , commanded the young man , obey thy master . 
Let my ship appear as it was before . 
Ah ! how merrily the sailors sang as they flew over the glassy sea ! At last the port was reached . 
The captain landed and ran to the palace , where he found the wicked old man asleep . 
The Princess clasped her husband in a long embrace . 
The magician tried to escape , but he was seized and bound with strong cords . 
The next day the sorcerer , tied to the tail of a savage mule loaded with nuts , was broken into as many pieces as there were nuts upon the mule's back . 
Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure . 
So the King set out to seek a fairy , and asked what he could do to win the Princess's love . 
The Fairy said to him You know that the Princess has a great cat which she is very fond of . 
Whoever is clever enough to tread on that cat's tail is the man she is destined to marry . 
You may imagine that it was not long before he went to see the Princess , and puss , as usual , marched in before him , arching his back . 
The King took a long step , and quite thought he had the tail under his foot , but the cat turned round so sharply that he only trod on air . 
And so it went on for eight days , till the King began to think that this fatal tail must be full of quicksilver it was never still for a moment . 
At last , however , he was lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and with his tail conveniently spread out . 
So the King , without losing a moment , set his foot upon it heavily . 
Though the King was horribly afraid of the enchanter , he could not help laughing at this threat . 
But , as the enchanter had vanished , he did not waste any more time in thinking , but went to seek the Princess , who very soon consented to marry him . 
The Prince was brought up with great care and , as soon as he could speak , they told him all sorts of dreadful stories about people who had short noses . 
But , do what they would , they were nothing by comparison with the Prince's . 
When he grew sensible he learned history and whenever any great prince or beautiful princess was spoken of , his teachers took care to tell him that they had long noses . 
He rode up to it , and saw a little old woman , who appeared to be at least a hundred years old . 
She put on her spectacles to look at Prince Hyacinth , but it was quite a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose was so very short . 
With all my heart , said the Fairy . 
Though your nose is so ridiculous you are , nevertheless , the son of my best friend . 
I loved your father as if he had been my brother . 
Now HE had a very handsome nose ! And pray what does mine lack ? said the Prince . 
Oh ! it doesn't LACK anything , replied the Fairy . 
On the contrary quite , there is only too much of it . 
But never mind , one may be a very worthy man though his nose is too long . 
I should like to tell you of a conversation we had the last time I ever saw him . 
The poor boy is right , said the Fairy I was forgetting . 
Too long a tongue is worse than too long a nose , and I remember when I was young that I was so much admired for not being a great chatterer . 
They used to tell the Queen , my mother , that it was so . 
For though you see what I am now , I was the daughter of a great king . 
My father Your father , I dare say , got something to eat when he was hungry ! interrupted the Prince . 
Oh ! certainly , answered the Fairy , and you also shall have supper directly . 
Plague take the old lady ! How she does go on about my nose ! said the Prince to himself . 
Well ! he thought , as he ate his supper , I'm very glad I came here . 
This just shows me how sensible I have been in never listening to flatterers . 
People of that sort praise us to our faces without shame , and hide our faults or change them into virtues . 
For my part I never will be taken in by them . 
I know my own defects , I hope . 
Now let us speak of your father . 
When I went to his Court he was only a little boy , but that is forty years ago , and I have been in this desolate place ever since . 
Tell me what goes on nowadays are the ladies as fond of amusement as ever ? In my time one saw them at parties , theatres , balls , and promenades every day . 
It cannot matter to you what it is like . 
I am quite satisfied with it , and have no wish to have it shorter . 
One must take what is given one . 
However , though I really cannot help your nose being a shock to me , I will try not to say anything about it . 
I will even try to think that you have an ordinary nose . 
To tell the truth , it would make three reasonable ones . 
The Prince , who was no longer hungry , grew so impatient at the Fairy's continual remarks about his nose that at last he threw himself upon his horse and rode hastily away . 
The old Fairy , who wished to make him happy , at last hit upon a plan . 
She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal , and put this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it . 
You see how self love keeps us from knowing our own defects of mind and body . 
Our reason tries in vain to show them to us we refuse to see them till we find them in the way of our interests . 
Prince Hyacinth , whose nose was now just like anyone's else , did not fail to profit by the lesson he had received . 
He married the Dear Little Princess , and they lived happily ever after . 
Le Prince Desir et la Princesse Mignonne . 
Par Madame Leprince de Beaumont . 
They were all pretty , but the prettiest of all was the youngest daughter , who was so beautiful that there were no bounds to her beauty . 
The man went out to see what could be the matter , and when he got out there stood a great big white bear . 
Good evening to you , said the White Bear . 
Good evening , said the man . 
Will you give me your youngest daughter ? said the White Bear if you will , you shall be as rich as you are now poor . 
Little enough had she to take away with her . 
Next Thursday evening the White Bear came to fetch her . 
She seated herself on his back with her bundle , and thus they departed . 
When they had gone a great part of the way , the White Bear said Are you afraid ? No , that I am not , said she . 
Keep tight hold of my fur , and then there is no danger , said he . 
And thus she rode far , far away , until they came to a great mountain . 
The White Bear gave her a silver bell , and told her that when she needed anything she had but to ring this bell , and what she wanted would appear . 
So after she had eaten , and night was drawing near , she grew sleepy after her journey , and thought she would like to go to bed . 
She never saw him , however , for he always came after she had put out her light , and went away before daylight appeared . 
Your parents dwell here now , said the White Bear but do not forget what I said to you , or you will do much harm both to yourself and me . 
No , indeed , said she , I shall never forget and as soon as she was at home the White Bear turned round and went back again . 
There were such rejoicings when she went in to her parents that it seemed as if they would never come to an end . 
Everyone thought that he could never be sufficiently grateful to her for all she had done for them all . 
Now they had everything that they wanted , and everything was as good as it could be . 
They all asked her how she was getting on where she was . 
All was well with her too , she said and she had everything that she could want . 
What other answers she gave I cannot say , but I am pretty sure that they did not learn much from her . 
But in the afternoon , after they had dined at midday , all happened just as the White Bear had said . 
Her mother wanted to talk with her alone in her own chamber . 
But she remembered what the White Bear had said , and would on no account go . 
What we have to say can be said at any time , she answered . 
But somehow or other her mother at last persuaded her , and she was forced to tell the whole story . 
Oh ! cried the mother , in horror , you are very likely sleeping with a troll ! But I will teach you a way to see him . 
You shall have a bit of one of my candles , which you can take away with you hidden in your breast . 
Look at him with that when he is asleep , but take care not to let any tallow drop upon him . 
So she took the candle , and hid it in her breast , and when evening drew near the White Bear came to fetch her away . 
Then , if you have done what your mother wished , said he , you have brought great misery on both of us . 
No , she said , I have not done anything at all . 
So she did kiss him but while she was doing it she let three drops of hot tallow fall upon his shirt , and he awoke . 
What have you done now ? said he you have brought misery on both of us . 
If you had but held out for the space of one year I should have been free . 
She wept and lamented , but all in vain , for go he must . 
Then she asked him if she could not go with him . 
But no , that could not be . 
It lies east of the sun and west of the moon , and never would you find your way there . 
When she awoke in the morning both the Prince and the castle were gone , and she was lying on a small green patch in the midst of a dark , thick wood . 
By her side lay the self same bundle of rags which she had brought with her from her own home . 
Outside it an aged woman was sitting , playing with a golden apple . 
How do you happen to know about him ? inquired the old woman maybe you are she who ought to have had him . 
Yes , indeed , I am , she said . 
When you have got there you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again but you may take the golden apple with you . 
Then she gave her the gold carding comb , for it might , perhaps , be of use to her , she said . 
But it was only the same thing once again . 
Maybe it was you who should have had the Prince , said the old woman . 
Yes , indeed , I should have been the one , said the girl . 
But when you have got to him you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear , and he will come home again . 
And then she gave her the golden spinning wheel , saying Perhaps you may find that you have a use for it . 
You may sit on my back , and then I can carry you there . 
You may seat yourself on my back , and then I will carry you to him . 
So she did this , and journeyed to the South Wind , neither was she very long on the way . 
You may sit upon my back , and then I will carry you there . 
So she seated herself on his back , and off he went from his house in great haste , and they were not long on the way . 
When they came near the North Wind's dwelling , he was so wild and frantic that they felt cold gusts a long while before they got there . 
What do you want ? he roared out from afar , and they froze as they heard . 
And now she wishes to ask you if you have ever been there , and can tell her the way , for she would gladly find him again . 
Yes , said the North Wind , I know where it is . 
I once blew an aspen leaf there , but I was so tired that for many days afterward I was not able to blow at all . 
Get there I must , said she and if there is any way of going I will and I have no fear , no matter how fast you go . 
Very well then , said the North Wind but you must sleep here to night , for if we are ever to get there we must have the day before us . 
Down below there was such a storm ! It blew down woods and houses , and when they were above the sea the ships were wrecked by hundreds . 
Art thou afraid ? said the North Wind . 
I have no fear , said she and it was true . 
How much do you want for that gold apple of yours , girl ? said she , opening the window . 
It can't be bought either for gold or money , answered the girl . 
If it cannot be bought either for gold or money , what will buy it ? You may say what you please , said the Princess . 
You may do that , said the Princess , for she had made up her mind what she would do . 
So the Princess got the golden apple , but when the girl went up to the Prince's apartment that night he was asleep , for the Princess had so contrived it . 
The poor girl called to him , and shook him , and between whiles she wept but she could not wake him . 
In the morning , as soon as day dawned , in came the Princess with the long nose , and drove her out again . 
In the daytime she sat down once more beneath the windows of the castle , and began to card with her golden carding comb and then all happened as it had happened before . 
When daylight came in the morning , the Princess with the long nose came too , and once more drove her away . 
So she opened the window , and asked what she would take for it . 
Yes , said the Princess , I will gladly consent to that . 
So , when the girl went into the Prince's room this time he was awake , and she had to tell him how she had come there . 
I will say that I want to see what my bride can do , and bid her wash the shirt which has the three drops of tallow on it . 
That you may do , said the stepmother . 
If she cannot do that , she is not worth having . 
Well , that was a very small matter , they thought , and agreed to do it . 
The Princess with the long nose began to wash as well as she could , but , the more she washed and rubbed , the larger the spots grew . 
Ah ! you can't wash at all , said the old troll hag , who was her mother . 
Can you wash this shirt clean ? he cried . 
Oh ! I don't know , she said but I will try . 
And no sooner had she taken the shirt and dipped it in the water than it was white as driven snow , and even whiter than that . 
I will marry you , said the Prince . 
THE YELLOW DWARF Once upon a time there lived a queen who had been the mother of a great many children , and of them all only one daughter was left . 
But then SHE was worth at least a thousand . 
The Queen , her mother , by her caresses and flatteries , helped to make her believe that there was nothing too good for her . 
And to make her more vain than ever the Queen caused her portrait to be taken by the cleverest painters and sent it to several neighboring kings with whom she was very friendly . 
When they saw this portrait they fell in love with the Princess every one of them , but upon each it had a different effect . 
Never has there been a gayer Court . 
All this admiration vastly pleased the Queen . 
Bellissima was already fifteen years old , and every one of the Princes wished to marry her , but not one dared to say so . 
Bellissima , she said , I do wish you would not be so proud . 
What makes you despise all these nice kings ? I wish you to marry one of them , and you do not try to please me . 
I am so happy , Bellissima answered do leave me in peace , madam . 
I don't want to care for anyone . 
At last , not knowing what else to do , she resolved to consult a certain witch who was called The Fairy of the Desert . 
This cake she prepared with her own hands , and putting it in a little basket , she set out to seek the Fairy . 
But as she was not used to walking far , she soon felt very tired and sat down at the foot of a tree to rest , and presently fell fast asleep . 
When she awoke she was dismayed to find her basket empty . 
Alas ! I should not care so much if only my dear daughter were married . 
I'm really glad to hear that , for I've been looking for a wife all over the world . 
Now , if you will promise that she shall marry me , not one of the lions , tigers , or bears shall touch you . 
The Queen looked at him and was almost as much afraid of his ugly little face as she had been of the lions before , so that she could not speak a word . 
What ! you hesitate , madam , cried the Dwarf . 
You must be very fond of being eaten up alive . 
And , as he spoke , the Queen saw the lions , which were running down a hill toward them . 
Each one had two heads , eight feet , and four rows of teeth , and their skins were as hard as turtle shells , and were bright red . 
Oh , indeed ! said he disdainfully . 
Bellissima is pretty enough , but I don't particularly want to marry her you can keep her . 
Oh ! noble sir , said the Queen in great distress , ado not refuse her . 
She is the most charming Princess in the world . 
Oh ! well , he replied , out of charity I will take her but be sure and don't forget that she is mine . 
It was encircled by a muddy ditch , and a little further on was a tiny thatched cottage , out of which came the Yellow Dwarf with a very jaunty air . 
He wore wooden shoes and a little yellow coat , and as he had no hair and very long ears he looked altogether a shocking little object . 
For if her shadow stays by her more closely than I do I shall be surprised . 
seeing all at once what a mis erable life her daughter would have with this Dwarf could not bear the idea , and fell down insensible without saying a word . 
Bellissima knew quite well that something was being hidden from her and that neither of these was the real reason of the Queen's uneasiness . 
But when it was time to go on again the basket had disappeared and , though she looked everywhere , not a trace of it could she find . 
The more she hunted for it , the more frightened she got , and at last she began to cry . 
Then all at once she saw before her the Yellow Dwarf . 
What's the matter with you , my pretty one ? said he . 
So for all these reasons I wished to talk to the Fairy . 
Do not give yourself any further trouble , Princess , answered the Dwarf . 
I can tell you all you want to know better than she could . 
The Queen , your mother , has promised you in marriage Has promised ME ! interrupted the Princess . 
I'm sure she has not . 
She would have told me if she had . 
I am too much interested in the matter for her to promise anything without my consent you must be mistaken . 
You ! cried Bellissima , starting back . 
And , indeed , at that moment the poor Princess heard their dreadful howls coming nearer and nearer . 
What shall I do ? she cried . 
Must all my happy days come to an end like this ? The malicious Dwarf looked at her and began to laugh spitefully . 
At least , said he , you have the satisfaction of dying unmarried . 
A lovely Princess like you must surely prefer to die rather than be the wife of a poor little dwarf like myself . 
Oh , don't be angry with me , cried the Princess , clasping her hands . 
I'd rather marry all the dwarfs in the world than die in this horrible way . 
Look at me well , Princess , before you give me your word , said he . 
I don't want you to promise me in a hurry . 
Oh ! cried she , the lions are coming . 
I have looked at you enough . 
Save me this minute , or I shall die of terror . 
Preparations were begun at once for the grandest wedding that had ever been held at the palace . 
The King of the Gold Mines sent such immense sums of money that the whole sea was covered with the ships that brought it . 
At least that is what the King of the Gold Mines thought , and he was never happy unless he was with her . 
How happy they were as they wandered about in the beautiful gardens together , sometimes listening to sweet music ! And the King used to write songs for Bellissima . 
This is one that she liked very much In the forest all is gay When my Princess walks that way . 
All the blossoms then are found Downward fluttering to the ground , Hoping she may tread on them . 
And bright flowers on slender stem Gaze up at her as she passes Brushing lightly through the grasses . 
Oh ! my Princess , birds above Echo back our songs of love , As through this enchanted land Blithe we wander , hand in hand . 
They really were as happy as the day was long . 
All the King's unsuccessful rivals had gone home in despair . 
They said good by to the Princess so sadly that she could not help being sorry for them . 
At last the happy day came . 
Everything was ready for Bellissima's wedding . 
The trumpets sounded , all the streets of the town were hung with flags and strewn with flowers , and the people ran in crowds to the great square before the palace . 
These were nothing less than diamonds , even to her shoes , which were covered with them , and her dress of silver brocade was embroidered with a dozen of the sun's rays . 
She wore a ruff of black taffeta , a red velvet hood , and a farthingale all in rags , and she leaned heavily upon a crutch . 
Make up your minds at once what you will do , for I vow that you shall marry the Yellow Dwarf . 
Rash youth ! he cried , rushing between the Fairy of the Desert and the King . 
Dare to lay a finger upon this illustrious Fairy ! Your quarrel is with me only . 
I am your enemy and your rival . 
That faithless Princess who would have married you is promised to me . 
See if she has not upon her finger a ring made of one of my hairs . 
Giving up the combat , he flew toward the Princess , to rescue or to die with her but the Yellow Dwarf was too quick for him . 
She thought that if she carried him off to some frightful cavern and chained him to a rock , then the fear of death would make him forget Bellissima and become her slave . 
What do I see ? she cried . 
Ah ! cried the pretended Fairy , if you have fallen into HER hands , you won't get away until you have married her . 
She has carried off more than one Prince like this , and she will certainly have anything she takes a fancy to . 
It is true that I love a charming princess , but if the Fairy should set me free my gratitude would oblige me to love her only . 
Do you really mean what you say , Prince ? said the Fairy , quite deceived . 
Surely , replied the Prince how could I deceive you ? You see it is so much more flattering to my vanity to be loved by a fairy than by a simple princess . 
But , even if I am dying of love for her , I shall pretend to hate her until I am set free . 
The Fairy of the Desert , quite taken in by these words , resolved at once to transport the Prince to a pleasanter place . 
So , making him mount her chariot , to which she had harnessed swans instead of the bats which generally drew it , away she flew with him . 
Now , the Fairy was so clever that she could not only seem beautiful to the King , but even the poor Princess thought her the most lovely being she had ever seen . 
The Fairy of the Desert had also seen Bellissima , and she tried to read in the King's eyes the effect that this unexpected sight had had upon him . 
No one can tell you what you wish to know better than I can , said he . 
Do you know what you are asking ? said the Fairy of the Desert , frowning , and looking at him suspiciously . 
A little way off stood a splendid palace , the walls of which were of transparent emeralds . 
The proud but feel a sharper pain , And make a greater triumph his . 
And he at once set to work to curl his hair , and , seeing upon a table a grander coat than his own , he put it on carefully . 
The Fairy came back so delighted that she could not conceal her joy . 
I am quite aware of the trouble you have taken to please me , said she , and I must tell you that you have succeeded perfectly already . 
You see it is not difficult to do if you really care for me . 
Presently , after walking wildly up and down , he wrote these verses upon the sand with his stick At last may I upon this shore Lighten my sorrow with soft tears . 
Alas ! alas ! I see no more My Love , who yet my sadness cheers . 
My heart is still more wild than thine , For Fate is cruel unto me . 
The King of the Gold Mines hardly knew what answer to make to this proposal . 
As he hesitated the Mermaid , who guessed his thoughts , said to him You may trust me I am not trying to entrap you . 
We must not waste time in talking , said she . 
And then the Mermaid caught up the King , and away they swam joyfully together . 
Now , said she , I have time to tell you about the Princess . 
She was laid upon a couch covered with cloth of gold , embroidered with pearls as big as nuts . 
Ah ! interrupted the King of the Gold Mines , if Bellissima forgets me , and consents to marry him , I shall break my heart . 
You need not be afraid of that , answered the Mermaid , the Princess thinks of no one but you , and the frightful Dwarf cannot persuade her to look at him . 
Pray go on with your story , said the King . 
What more is there to tell you ? replied the Mermaid . 
She believes that I love her ! cried the King . 
What a fatal mistake ! What is to be done to undeceive her ? You know best , answered the Mermaid , smiling kindly at him . 
When people are as much in love with one another as you two are , they don't need advice from anyone else . 
As she spoke they reached the Castle of Steel , the side next the sea being the only one which the Yellow Dwarf had left unprotected by the dreadful burning walls . 
So saying , she gave to the King a sword made from a single diamond , which was more brilliant than the sun . 
We must now go back to the Fairy of the Desert . 
For , no sooner had he flashed it before their eyes than down they fell at his feet quite helpless , and he killed them with one blow . 
But he had hardly turned to continue his search when he met six dragons covered with scales that were harder than iron . 
Frightful as this encounter was the King's courage was unshaken , and by the aid of his wonderful sword he cut them in pieces one after the other . 
Now he hoped his difficulties were over , but at the next turning he was met by one which he did not know how to overcome . 
Four and twenty pretty and graceful nymphs advanced toward him , holding garlands of flowers , with which they barred the way . 
Where are you going , Prince ? they said it is our duty to guard this place , and if we let you pass great misfortunes will happen to you and to us . 
We beg you not to insist upon going on . 
Do you want to kill four and twenty girls who have never displeased you in any way ? The King did not know what to do or to say . 
I am not faithless or to blame for what has happened . 
I am a miserable wretch who has displeased you without being able to help himself . 
Do not refuse the aid of your most faithful lover . 
So saying , he threw himself at her feet and held her by her robe . 
Let me die a thousand times rather , cried the unhappy King . 
Alas ! cried the Princess , must you die ? Could anything be more terrible ? That you should marry that little wretch would be far more terrible , answered the King . 
At least , continued she , let us die together . 
Let me have the satisfaction of dying for you , my Princess , said he . 
Oh , no , no ! she cried , turning to the Dwarf rather than that I will do as you wish . 
So saying , in spite of Bellissima's tears and cries , he stabbed the King to the heart with the diamond sword . 
The poor Princess , seeing her lover lying dead at her feet , could no longer live without him she sank down by him and died of a broken heart . 
So ended these unfortunate lovers , whom not even the Mermaid could help , because all the magic power had been lost with the diamond sword . 
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD ONCE upon a time there lived in a certain village a little country girl , the prettiest creature was ever seen . 
Her mother was excessively fond of her and her grandmother doted on her still more . 
This good woman had made for her a little red riding hood which became the girl so extremely well that everybody called her Little Red Riding Hood . 
Little Red Riding Hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother , who lived in another village . 
He asked her whither she was going . 
Does she live far off ? said the Wolf . 
Oh ! ay , answered Little Red Riding Hood it is beyond that mill you see there , at the first house in the village . 
Well , said the Wolf , and I'll go and see her too . 
I'll go this way and you go that , and we shall see who will be there soonest . 
The Wolf was not long before he got to the old woman's house . 
He knocked at the door tap , tap . 
The good grandmother , who was in bed , because she was somewhat ill , cried out Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . 
He then shut the door and went into the grandmother's bed , expecting Little Red Riding Hood , who came some time afterward and knocked at the door tap , tap . 
The Wolf cried out to her , softening his voice as much as he could Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . 
Little Red Riding Hood pulled the bobbin , and the door opened . 
Grandmamma , what great legs you have got ! That is to run the better , my child . 
Grandmamma , what great ears you have got ! That is to hear the better , my child . 
Grandmamma , what great eyes you have got ! It is to see the better , my child . 
Grandmamma , what great teeth you have got ! That is to eat thee up . 
And , saying these words , this wicked wolf fell upon Little Red Riding Hood , and ate her all up . 
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD THERE were formerly a king and a queen , who were so sorry that they had no children so sorry that it cannot be expressed . 
They went to all the waters in the world vows , pilgrimages , all ways were tried , and all to no purpose . 
At last , however , the Queen had a daughter . 
, that every one of them might give her a gift , as was the custom of fairies in those days . 
By this means the Princess had all the perfections imaginable . 
After the ceremonies of the christening were over , all the company returned to the King's palace , where was prepared a great feast for the fairies . 
The King ordered her a cover , but could not furnish her with a case of gold as the others , because they had only seven made for the seven fairies . 
The old Fairy fancied she was slighted , and muttered some threats between her teeth . 
In the meanwhile all the fairies began to give their gifts to the Princess . 
This terrible gift made the whole company tremble , and everybody fell a crying . 
It is true , I have no power to undo entirely what my elder has done . 
This good woman had never heard of the King's proclamation against spindles . 
What are you doing there , goody ? said the Princess . 
I am spinning , my pretty child , said the old woman , who did not know who she was . 
Ha ! said the Princess , this is very pretty how do you do it ? Give it to me , that I may see if I can do so . 
The good old woman , not knowing very well what to do in this affair , cried out for help . 
The King commanded that they should not disturb her , but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awaking was come . 
The Fairy came away immediately , and she arrived , about an hour after , in a fiery chariot drawn by dragons . 
Immediately upon her touching them they all fell asleep , that they might not awake before their mistress and that they might be ready to wait upon her when she wanted them . 
The very spits at the fire , as full as they could hold of partridges and pheasants , did fall asleep also . 
All this was done in a moment . 
Fairies are not long in doing their business . 
Nobody doubted but the Fairy gave herein a very extraordinary sample of her art , that the Princess , while she continued sleeping , might have nothing to fear from any curious people . 
Some said That it was a ruinous old castle , haunted by spirits . 
Others , That all the sorcerers and witches of the country kept there their sabbath or night's meeting . 
However , he did not cease from continuing his way a young and amorous prince is always valiant . 
He came into a spacious outward court , where everything he saw might have frozen the most fearless person with horror . 
After that he went through several rooms full of gentlemen and ladies , all asleep , some standing , others sitting . 
He approached with trembling and admiration , and fell down before her upon his knees . 
You have waited a long while . 
that the good Fairy , during so long a sleep , had given her very agreeable dreams . 
In short , they talked four hours together , and yet they said not half what they had to say . 
In the meanwhile all the palace awaked everyone thought upon their particular business , and as all of them were not in love they were ready to die for hunger . 
The chief lady of honor , being as sharp set as other folks , grew very impatient , and told the Princess aloud that supper was served up . 
The Queen spoke several times to her son , to inform herself after what manner he did pass his time , and that in this he ought in duty to satisfy her . 
And so the Prince would never tell her one word . 
They made a magnificent entry into the capital city , she riding between her two children . 
Soon after the King went to make war with the Emperor Contalabutte , his neighbor . 
He left the government of the kingdom to the Queen his mother , and earnestly recommended to her care his wife and children . 
Some few days afterward she went thither herself , and said to her clerk of the kitchen I have a mind to eat little Morning for my dinner to morrow . 
Ah ! madam , cried the clerk of the kitchen . 
, and will eat her with a sauce Robert . 
The poor man , knowing very well that he must not play tricks with Ogresses , took his great knife and went up into little Morning's chamber . 
She was then four years old , and came up to him jumping and laughing , to take him about the neck , and ask him for some sugar candy . 
He had at the same time taken up little Morning , and carried her to his wife , to conceal her in the lodging he had at the bottom of the courtyard . 
About eight days afterward the wicked Queen said to the clerk of the kitchen , I will sup on little Day . 
He answered not a word , being resolved to cheat her as he had done before . 
This was hitherto all mighty well but one evening this wicked Queen said to her clerk of the kitchen I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children . 
It was now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despaired of being able to deceive her . 
The young Queen was turned of twenty , not reckoning the hundred years she had been asleep and how to find in the yard a beast so firm was what puzzled him . 
He would not , however , surprise her , but told her , with a great deal of respect , the orders he had received from the Queen mother . 
Execute your orders , and then I shall go and see my children , my poor children , whom I so much and so tenderly loved . 
For she thought them dead ever since they had been taken away without her knowledge . 
and asked , with the utmost astonishment , what was the meaning of that horrible spectacle . 
The King could not but be very sorry , for she was his mother but he soon comforted himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty children . 
CINDERELLA , OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER ONCE there was a gentleman who married , for his second wife , the proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen . 
She had , by a former husband , two daughters of her own humor , who were , indeed , exactly like her in all things . 
No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother in law began to show herself in her true colors . 
She could not bear the good qualities of this pretty girl , and the less because they made her own daughters appear the more odious . 
She employed her in the meanest work of the house she scoured the dishes , tables , etc . 
The poor girl bore all patiently , and dared not tell her father , who would have rattled her off for his wife governed him entirely . 
However , Cinderella , notwithstanding her mean apparel , was a hundred times handsomer than her sisters , though they were always dressed very richly . 
It happened that the King's son gave a ball , and invited all persons of fashion to it . 
Our young misses were also invited , for they cut a very grand figure among the quality . 
They were mightily delighted at this invitation , and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns , petticoats , and head clothes as might become them . 
For my part , said the eldest , I will wear my red velvet suit with French trimming . 
Thou art in the right of it , replied they it would make the people laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball . 
They broke above a dozen laces in trying to be laced up close , that they might have a fine slender shape , and they were continually at their looking glass . 
Her godmother , who saw her all in tears , asked her what was the matter . 
I wish I could I wish I could she was not able to speak the rest , being interrupted by her tears and sobbing . 
Well , said her godmother , be but a good girl , and I will contrive that thou shalt go . 
Then she took her into her chamber , and said to her , Run into the garden , and bring me a pumpkin . 
Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get , and brought it to her godmother , not being able to imagine how this pumpkin could make her go to the ball . 
Thou art in the right , replied her godmother go and look . 
Cinderella brought the trap to her , and in it there were three huge rats . 
After that , she said to her Go again into the garden , and you will find six lizards behind the watering pot , bring them to me . 
This done , she gave her a pair of glass slippers , the prettiest in the whole world . 
She promised her godmother she would not fail of leaving the ball before midnight and then away she drives , scarce able to contain herself for joy . 
There was immediately a profound silence , they left off dancing , and the violins ceased to play , so attentive was everyone to contemplate the singular beauties of the unknown new comer . 
The King's son conducted her to the most honorable seat , and afterward took her out to dance with him she danced so very gracefully that they all more and more admired her . 
A fine collation was served up , whereof the young prince ate not a morsel , so intently was he busied in gazing on her . 
As she was eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the ball , her two sisters knocked at the door , which Cinderella ran and opened . 
If thou hadst been at the ball , said one of her sisters , thou wouldst not have been tired with it . 
There came thither the finest princess , the most beautiful ever was seen with mortal eyes she showed us a thousand civilities , and gave us oranges and citrons . 
Ay , to be sure ! cried Miss Charlotte lend my clothes to such a dirty Cinderwench as thou art ! I should be a fool . 
The next day the two sisters were at the ball , and so was Cinderella , but dressed more magnificently than before . 
The Prince followed , but could not overtake her . 
She left behind one of her glass slippers , which the Prince took up most carefully . 
The guards at the palace gate were asked If they had not seen a princess go out . 
Who said They had seen nobody go out but a young girl , very meanly dressed , and who had more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman . 
When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them If they had been well diverted , and if the fine lady had been there . 
Cinderella , who saw all this , and knew her slipper , said to them , laughing Let me see if it will not fit me . 
Her sisters burst out a laughing , and began to banter her . 
The astonishment her two sisters were in was excessively great , but still abundantly greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper , and put it on her foot . 
Thereupon , in came her godmother , who , having touched with her wand Cinderella's clothes , made them richer and more magnificent than any of those she had before . 
And now her two sisters found her to be that fine , beautiful lady whom they had seen at the ball . 
They threw themselves at her feet to beg pardon for all the ill treatment they had made her undergo . 
Cinderella took them up , and , as she embraced them , cried That she forgave them with all her heart , and desired them always to love her . 
She was conducted to the young prince , dressed as she was he thought her more charming than ever , and , a few days after , married her . 
Cinderella , who was no less good than beautiful , gave her two sisters lodgings in the palace , and that very same day matched them with two great lords of the Court . 
This so grieved the father that he died yet , in spite of his mother's tears and prayers , Aladdin did not mend his ways . 
One day , when he was playing in the streets as usual , a stranger asked him his age , and if he was not the son of Mustapha the tailor . 
I am , sir , replied Aladdin but he died a long while ago . 
Go to your mother and tell her I am coming . 
Aladdin ran home and told his mother of his newly found uncle . 
Indeed , child , she said , your father had a brother , but I always thought he was dead . 
However , she prepared supper , and bade Aladdin seek his uncle , who came laden with wine and fruit . 
He then turned to Aladdin , and asked him his trade , at which the boy hung his head , while his mother burst into tears . 
On learning that Aladdin was idle and would learn no trade , he offered to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise . 
The next day the magician led Aladdin into some beautiful gardens a long way outside the city gates . 
They sat down by a fountain and the magician pulled a cake from his girdle , which he divided between them . 
They then journeyed onward till they almost reached the mountains . 
Aladdin was so tired that he begged to go back , but the magician beguiled him with pleasant stories , and led him on in spite of himself . 
At last they came to two mountains divided by a narrow valley . 
We will go no farther , said the false uncle . 
I will show you something wonderful only do you gather up sticks while I kindle a fire . 
When it was lit the magician threw on it a powder he had about him , at the same time saying some magical words . 
The earth trembled a little and opened in front of them , disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise it by . 
Aladdin tried to run away , but the magician caught him and gave him a blow that knocked him down . 
What have I done , uncle ? he said piteously whereupon the magician said more kindly Fear nothing , but obey me . 
Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours , and no one else may touch it , so you must do exactly as I tell you . 
At the word treasure Aladdin forgot his fears , and grasped the ring as he was told , saying the names of his father and grandfather . 
The stone came up quite easily , and some steps appeared . 
Go down , said the magician at the foot of those steps you will find an open door leading into three large halls . 
Tuck up your gown and go through them without touching anything , or you will die instantly . 
These halls lead into a garden of fine fruit trees . 
Walk on until you come to a niche in a terrace where stands a lighted lamp . 
Pour out the oil it contains , and bring it to me . 
He drew a ring from his finger and gave it to Aladdin , bidding him prosper . 
Aladdin found everything as the magician had said , gathered some fruit off the trees , and , having got the lamp , arrived at the mouth of the cave . 
The magician cried out in a great hurry Make haste and give me the lamp . 
This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave . 
The magician flew into a terrible passion , and throwing some more powder on to the fire , he said something , and the stone rolled back into its place . 
Though he alone knew where to find it , he could only receive it from the hand of another . 
He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for this purpose , intending to get the lamp and kill him afterward . 
For two days Aladdin remained in the dark , crying and lamenting . 
At last he clasped his hands in prayer , and in so doing rubbed the ring , which the magician had forgotten to take from him . 
Aladdin fearlessly replied Deliver me from this place ! whereupon the earth opened , and he found himself outside . 
As soon as his eyes could bear the light he went home , but fainted on the threshold . 
He then asked for some food . 
Alas ! child , she said , I have nothing in the house , but I have spun a little cotton and will go and sell it . 
Aladdin bade her keep her cotton , for he would sell the lamp instead . 
As it was very dirty she began to rub it , that it might fetch a higher price . 
Instantly a hideous genie appeared , and asked what she would have . 
Aladdin's mother , when she came to herself , said Whence comes this splendid feast ? Ask not , but eat , replied Aladdin . 
So they sat at breakfast till it was dinner time , and Aladdin told his mother about the lamp . 
She begged him to sell it , and have nothing to do with devils . 
No , said Aladdin , since chance hath made us aware of its virtues , we will use it , and the ring likewise , which I shall always wear on my finger . 
When they had eaten all the genie had brought , Aladdin sold one of the silver plates , and so on until none were left . 
He then had recourse to the genie , who gave him another set of plates , and thus they lived for many years . 
Aladdin was seized by a desire to see her face , which was very difficult , as she always went veiled . 
He hid himself behind the door of the bath , and peeped through a chink . 
The Princess lifted her veil as she went in , and looked so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight . 
He went home so changed that his mother was frightened . 
He told her he loved the Princess so deeply that he could not live without her , and meant to ask her in marriage of her father . 
His mother , on hearing this , burst out laughing , but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry his request . 
She fetched a napkin and laid in it the magic fruits from the enchanted garden , which sparkled and shone like the most beautiful jewels . 
She took these with her to please the Sultan , and set out , trusting in the lamp . 
The Grand Vizier and the lords of council had just gone in as she entered the hall and placed herself in front of the Sultan . 
He , however , took no notice of her . 
She went every day for a week , and stood in the same place . 
When the council broke up on the sixth day the Sultan said to his Vizier I see a certain woman in the audience chamber every day carrying something in a napkin . 
Call her next time , that I may find out what she wants . 
She hesitated , so the Sultan sent away all but the Vizier , and bade her speak frankly , promising to forgive her beforehand for anything she might say . 
She then told him of her son's violent love for the Princess . 
Now I pray you to forgive not me alone , but my son Aladdin . 
The Sultan asked her kindly what she had in the napkin , whereupon she unfolded the jewels and presented them . 
The Sultan granted this , and told Aladdin's mother that , though he consented to the marriage , she must not appear before him again for three months . 
My command is that to night you bring hither the bride and bridegroom . 
Master , I obey , said the genie . 
Aladdin then went to his chamber , where , sure enough , at midnight the genie transported the bed containing the Vizier's son and the Princess . 
Take this new married man , he said , and put him outside in the cold , and return at daybreak . 
Whereupon the genie took the Vizier's son out of bed , leaving Aladdin with the Princess . 
Fear nothing , Aladdin said to her you are my wife , promised to me by your unjust father , and no harm shall come to you . 
The Princess was too frightened to speak , and passed the most miserable night of her life , while Aladdin lay down beside her and slept soundly . 
At the appointed hour the genie fetched in the shivering bridegroom , laid him in his place , and transported the bed back to the palace . 
Presently the Sultan came to wish his daughter good morning . 
The unhappy Vizier's son jumped up and hid himself , while the Princess would not say a word , and was very sorrowful . 
Her mother did not believe her in the least , but bade her rise and consider it an idle dream . 
The following night exactly the same thing happened , and next morning , on the Princess's refusal to speak , the Sultan threatened to cut off her head . 
She then confessed all , bidding him to ask the Vizier's son if it were not so . 
His wish was granted , and there was an end to feasting and rejoicing . 
When the three months were over , Aladdin sent his mother to remind the Sultan of his promise . 
She stood in the same place as before , and the Sultan , who had forgotten Aladdin , at once remembered him , and sent for her . 
Tell him that I await his answer . 
The mother of Aladdin bowed low and went home , thinking all was lost . 
She gave Aladdin the message , adding He may wait long enough for your answer ! Not so long , mother , as you think , her son replied . 
I would do a great deal more than that for the Princess . 
He summoned the genie , and in a few moments the eighty slaves arrived , and filled up the small house and garden . 
Aladdin made them set out to the palace , two and two , followed by his mother . 
They were so richly dressed , with such splendid jewels in their girdles , that everyone crowded to see them and the basins of gold they carried on their heads . 
He hesitated no longer , but said Good woman , return and tell your son that I wait for him with open arms . 
She lost ho time in telling Aladdin , bidding him make haste . 
But Aladdin first called the genie . 
I want a scented bath , he said , a richly embroidered habit , a horse surpassing the Sultan's , and twenty slaves to attend me . 
Besides this , six slaves , beautifully dressed , to wait on my mother and lastly , ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses . 
No sooner said than done . 
Aladdin mounted his horse and passed through the streets , the slaves strewing gold as they went . 
Those who had played with him in his childhood knew him not , he had grown so handsome . 
But Aladdin refused , saying , I must build a palace fit for her , and took his leave . 
Once home , he said to the genie Build me a palace of the finest marble , set with jasper , agate , and other precious stones . 
Aladdin's mother then dressed herself carefully , and walked to the palace with her slaves , while he followed her on horseback . 
The Sultan sent musicians with trumpets and cymbals to meet them , so that the air resounded with music and cheers . 
She was taken to the Princess , who saluted her and treated her with great honor . 
She was charmed at the sight of Aladdin , who ran to receive her . 
Princess , he said , blame your beauty for my boldness if I have displeased you . 
She told him that , having seen him , she willingly obeyed her father in this matter . 
After the wedding had taken place Aladdin led her into the hall , where a feast was spread , and she supped with him , after which they danced till midnight . 
Next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to see the palace . 
Was it by accident that one window was left unfinished ? No , sir , by design , returned Aladdin . 
I wished your Majesty to have the glory of finishing this palace . 
The Sultan was pleased , and sent for the best jewelers in the city . 
He showed them the unfinished window , and bade them fit it up like the others . 
Sir , replied their spokesman , we cannot find jewels enough . 
The Sultan had his own fetched , which they soon used , but to no purpose , for in a month's time the work was not half done . 
Aladdin , knowing that their task was vain , bade them undo their work and carry the jewels back , and the genie finished the window at his command . 
The Sultan was surprised to receive his jewels again , and visited Aladdin , who showed him the window finished . 
The Sul tan embraced him , the envious Vizier meanwhile hinting that it was the work of enchantment . 
Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing . 
As he passed through the town he heard people talking everywhere about a marvellous palace . 
The magician thanked him who spoke , and having seen the palace , knew that it had been raised by the Genie of the Lamp , and became half mad with rage . 
He determined to get hold of the lamp , and again plunge Aladdin into the deepest poverty . 
Unluckily , Aladdin had gone a hunting for eight days , which gave the magician plenty of time . 
He bought a dozen copper lamps , put them into a basket , and went to the palace , crying New lamps for old ! followed by a jeering crowd . 
Now this was the magic lamp , which Aladdin had left there , as he could not take it out hunting with him . 
The Princess , not knowing its value , laughingly bade the slave take it and make the exchange . 
She went and said to the magician Give me a new lamp for this . 
He snatched it and bade the slave take her choice , amid the jeers of the crowd . 
The genie appeared , and at the magician's command carried him , together with the palace and the Princess in it , to a lonely place in Africa . 
Next morning the Sultan looked out of the window toward Aladdin's palace and rubbed his eyes , for it was gone . 
He sent for the Vizier and asked what had become of the palace . 
The Vizier looked out too , and was lost in astonishment . 
He again put it down to enchantment , and this time the Sultan believed him , and sent thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin in chains . 
They met him riding home , bound him , and forced him to go with them on foot . 
The people , however , who loved him , followed , armed , to see that he came to no harm . 
He was carried before the Sultan , who ordered the executioner to cut off his head . 
The executioner made Aladdin kneel down , bandaged his eyes , and raised his scimitar to strike . 
The people , indeed , looked so threatening that the Sultan gave way and ordered Aladdin to be unbound , and pardoned him in the sight of the crowd . 
Aladdin now begged to know what he had done . 
False wretch ! said the Sultan , come thither , and showed him from the window the place where his palace had stood . 
Aladdin was so amazed that he could not say a word . 
Where is my palace and my daughter ? demanded the Sultan . 
For the first I am not so deeply concerned , but my daughter I must have , and you must find her or lose your head . 
Aladdin begged for forty days in which to find her , promising , if he failed , to return and suffer death at the Sultan's pleasure . 
His prayer was granted , and he went forth sadly from the Sultan's presence . 
For three days he wandered about like a madman , asking everyone what had become of his palace , but they only laughed and pitied him . 
He came to the banks of a river , and knelt down to say his prayers before throwing himself in . 
In so doing he rubbed the magic ring he still wore . 
The genie he had seen in the cave appeared , and asked his will . 
Save my life , genie , said Aladdin , bring my palace back . 
That is not in my power , said the genie I am only the Slave of the Ring you must ask him of the lamp . 
Even so , said Aladdin , but thou canst take me to the palace , and set me down under my dear wife's window . 
He at once found himself in Africa , under the window of the Princess , and fell asleep out of sheer weariness . 
He was awakened by the singing of the birds , and his heart was lighter . 
He saw plainly that all his misfortunes were owing to the loss of the lamp , and vainly wondered who had robbed him of it . 
That morning the Princess rose earlier than she had done since she had been carried into Africa by the magician , whose company she was forced to endure once a day . 
She , however , treated him so harshly that he dared not live there altogether . 
As she was dressing , one of her women looked out and saw Aladdin . 
The Princess ran and opened the window , and at the noise she made Aladdin looked up . 
She called to him to come to her , and great was the joy of these lovers at seeing each other again . 
Alas ! she said , I am the innocent cause of our sorrows , and told him of the exchange of the lamp . 
Now I know , cried Aladdin , that we have to thank the African magician for this ! Where is the lamp ? He carries it about with him , said the Princess . 
I know , for he pulled it out of his breast to show me . 
He wishes me to break my faith with you and marry him , saying that you were beheaded by my father's command . 
He is for ever speaking ill of you but I only reply by my tears . 
If I persist , I doubt not but he will use violence . 
Aladdin comforted her , and left her for a while . 
Put on your most beautiful dress , he said to her and receive the magician with smiles , leading him to believe that you have forgotten me . 
Invite him to sup with you , and say you wish to taste the wine of his country . 
He will go for some and while he is gone I will tell you what to do . 
She listened carefully to Aladdin and when he left she arrayed herself gaily for the first time since she left China . 
The magician flew to his cellar , and the Princess put the powder Aladdin had given her in her cup . 
When he returned she asked him to drink her health in the wine of Africa , handing him her cup in exchange for his , as a sign she was reconciled to him . 
She set her cup to her lips and kept it there , while the magician drained his to the dregs and fell back lifeless . 
The Princess then opened the door to Aladdin , and flung her arms round his neck but Aladdin put her away , bidding her leave him , as he had more to do . 
He then went to the dead magician , took the lamp out of his vest , and bade the genie carry the palace and all in it back to China . 
This was done , and the Princess in her chamber only felt two little shocks , and little thought she was at home again . 
Aladdin told him what had happened , and showed him the dead body of the magician , that he might believe . 
A ten days' feast was proclaimed , and it seemed as if Aladdin might now live the rest of his life in peace but it was not to be . 
The African magician had a younger brother , who was , if possible , more wicked and more cunning than himself . 
He traveled to China to avenge his brother's death , and went to visit a pious woman called Fatima , thinking she might be of use to him . 
He entered her cell and clapped a dagger to her breast , telling her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death . 
He changed clothes with her , colored his face like hers , put on her veil , and murdered her , that she might tell no tales . 
Then he went toward the palace of Aladdin , and all the people , thinking he was the holy woman , gathered round him , kissing his hands and begging his blessing . 
When he got to the palace there was such a noise going on round him that the Princess bade her slave look out of the window and ask what was the matter . 
The slave said it was the holy woman , curing people by her touch of their ailments , whereupon the Princess , who had long desired to see Fatima , sent for her . 
On coming to the Princess the magician offered up a prayer for her health and prosperity . 
When he had done the Princess made him sit by her , and begged him to stay with her always . 
The false Fatima , who wished for nothing better , consented , but kept his veil down for fear of discovery . 
The Princess showed him the hall , and asked him what he thought of it . 
It is truly beautiful , said the false Fatima . 
In my mind it wants but one thing . 
And what is that ? said the Princess . 
If only a roc's egg , replied he , were hung up from the middle of this dome , it would be the wonder of the world . 
After this the Princess could think of nothing but the roc's egg , and when Aladdin returned from hunting he found her in a very ill humor . 
He begged to know what was amiss , and she told him that all her pleasure in the hall was spoiled for the want of a roc's egg hanging from the dome . 
If that is all , replied Aladdin , you shall soon be happy . 
He left her and rubbed the lamp , and when the genie appeared commanded him to bring a roc's egg . 
The genie gave such a loud and terrible shriek that the hall shook . 
He is now in your palace disguised as the holy woman whom he murdered . 
He it was who put that wish into your wife's head . 
Take care of yourself , for he means to kill you . 
So saying , the genie disappeared . 
Aladdin went back to the Princess , saying his head ached , and requesting that the holy Fatima should be fetched to lay her hands on it . 
But when the magician came near , Aladdin , seizing his dagger , pierced him to the heart . 
What have you done ? cried the Princess . 
You have killed the holy woman ! Not so , replied Aladdin , but a wicked magician , and told her of how she had been deceived . 
After this Aladdin and his wife lived in peace . 
He succeeded the Sultan when he died , and reigned for many years , leaving behind him a long line of kings . 
They are always saying it makes one shudder ! it makes one shudder ! Nothing makes me shudder . 
It's probably an art quite beyond me . 
Look at your brother , what pains he takes but all the money I've spent on your education is thrown away . 
My dear father , he replied , I will gladly learn in fact , if it were possible I should like to learn to shudder I don't understand that a bit yet . 
The father sighed , and answered him You'll soon learn to shudder but that won't help you to make a living . 
Only think ! when I asked him how he purposed gaining a livelihood , he actually asked to be taught to shudder . 
If that's all he wants , said the sexton , I can teach him that just you send him to me , I'll soon polish him up . 
The father was quite pleased with the proposal , because he thought It will be a good discipline for the youth . 
And so the sexton took him into his house , and his duty was to toll the bell . 
After a few days he woke him at midnight , and bade him rise and climb into the tower and toll . 
Now , my friend , I'll teach you to shudder , thought he . 
Who's there ? he called out , but the figure gave no answer , and neither stirred nor moved . 
Answer , cried the youth , or begone you have no business here at this hour of the night . 
But the sexton remained motionless , so that the youth might think that it was a ghost . 
The youth called out the second time What do you want here ? Speak if you are an honest fellow , or I'll knock you down the stairs . 
The sexton thought He can't mean that in earnest , so gave forth no sound , and stood as though he were made of stone . 
Thereupon he tolled the bell , went home to bed without saying a word , and fell asleep . 
The sexton's wife waited a long time for her husband , but he never appeared . 
At last she became anxious , and woke the youth , and asked Don't you know where my husband is ? He went up to the tower in front of you . 
You'd better go and see if it was he I should be much distressed if it were . 
The wife ran and found her husband who was lying groaning in a corner , with his leg broken . 
She carried him down , and then hurried with loud protestations to the youth's father . 
Your son has been the cause of a pretty misfortune , she cried he threw my husband downstairs so that he broke his leg . 
Take the good for nothing wretch out of our house . 
The father was horrified , hurried to the youth , and gave him a scolding . 
What unholy pranks are these ? The evil one must have put them into your head . 
Father , he replied , only listen to me I am quite guiltless . 
He stood there in the night , like one who meant harm . 
I didn't know who it was , and warned him three times to speak or begone . 
Oh ! groaned the father , you'll bring me nothing but misfortune get out of my sight , I won't have anything more to do with you . 
Learn what you will , said the father , it's all one to me . 
Yes , father , whatever you wish and if that's all you ask , I can easily keep it in mind . 
If that's all I have to do , answered the youth , it's easily done but if I learn to shudder so quickly , then you shall have my fifty dollars . 
Just come back to me tomorrow morning early . 
Then the youth went to the gallows tree and sat down underneath it , and waited for the evening and because he felt cold he lit himself a fire . 
But at midnight it got so chill that in spite of the fire he couldn't keep warm . 
Then he stirred the fire , blew it up , and placed them all round in a circle , that they might warm themselves . 
But they sat there and did not move , and the fire caught their clothes . 
Then he spoke Take care , or I'll hang you up again . 
But the dead men did not hear and let their rags go on burning . 
Then he sat down at his fire and fell asleep . 
On the following morning the man came to him , and , wishing to get his fifty dollars , said Now you know what it is to shudder . 
Then the man saw he wouldn't get his fifty dollars that day , and went off , saying Well , I'm blessed if I ever met such a person in my life before . 
Where do you hail from ? I don't know . 
Who's your father ? I mayn't say . 
What are you constantly muttering to yourself ? Oh ! said the youth , I would give worlds to shudder , but no one can teach me . 
Stuff and nonsense ! spoke the carrier come along with me , and I'll soon put that right . 
The youth went with the carrier , and in the evening they reached an inn , where they were to spend the night . 
But the youth said No matter how difficult , I insist on learning it why , that's what I've set out to do . 
The King had promised the man who dared to do this thing his daughter as wife , and she was the most beautiful maiden under the sun . 
There was also much treasure hid in the castle , guarded by evil spirits , which would then be free , and was sufficient to make a poor man more than rich . 
Many had already gone in , but so far none had ever come out again . 
So the youth went to the King and spoke If I were allowed , I should much like to watch for three nights in the castle . 
Then he answered Well , I shall beg for a fire , a turning lathe , and a carving bench with the knife attached . 
Oh ! if I could only shudder ! he said but I sha'n't learn it here either . 
Toward midnight he wanted to make up the fire , and as he was blowing up a blaze he heard a shriek from a corner . 
Ou , miou ! how cold we are ! You fools ! he cried why do you scream ? If you are cold , come and sit at the fire and warm yourselves . 
And as he spoke two huge black cats sprang fiercely forward and sat down , one on each side of him , and gazed wildly at him with their fiery eyes . 
Then they stretched out their claws . 
Ha ! said he what long nails you've got ! Wait a minute I must first cut them off . 
Thereupon he seized them by the scruff of their necks , lifted them on to the carving bench , and screwed down their paws firmly . 
They yelled in the most ghastly manner , jumped upon his fire , scattered it all , and tried to put it out . 
Some of them fled away , and the others he struck dead and threw them out into the pond below . 
When he returned he blew up the sparks of the fire once more , and warmed himself . 
And as he sat thus his eyes refused to keep open any longer , and a desire to sleep stole over him . 
Then he looked around him and beheld in the corner a large bed . 
The very thing , he said , and laid himself down in it . 
But when he wished to close his eyes the bed began to move by itself , and ran all round the castle . 
Capital , he said , only a little quicker . 
Then the bed sped on as if drawn by six horses , over thresholds and stairs , up this way and down that . 
All of a sudden crash , crash ! with a bound it turned over , upside down , and lay like a mountain on the top of him . 
In the morning the King came , and when he beheld him lying on the ground he imagined the ghosts had been too much for him , and that he was dead . 
Then he said What a pity ! and such a fine fellow he was . 
The youth heard this , got up , and said It's not come to that yet . 
Then the King was astonished , but very glad , and asked how it had fared with him . 
First rate , he answered and now I've survived the one night , I shall get through the other two also . 
The landlord , when he went to him , opened his eyes wide , and said Well , I never thought to see you alive again . 
Wait a bit , he said I'll stir up the fire for you . 
When he had done this and again looked around , the two pieces had united , and a horrible looking man sat on his seat . 
Come , said the youth , I didn't bargain for that , the seat is mine . 
The man tried to shove him away , but the youth wouldn't allow it for a moment , and , pushing him off by force , sat down in his place again . 
Then more men dropped down , one after the other , who fetching nine skeleton legs and two skulls , put them up and played ninepins with them . 
The youth thought he would like to play too , and said Look here do you mind my joining the game ? No , not if you have money . 
I've money enough , he replied , but your balls aren't round enough . 
Then he took the skulls , placed them on his lathe , and turned them till they were round . 
Now they'll roll along better , said he , and houp la ! now the fun begins . 
He played with them and lost some of his money , but when twelve struck everything vanished before his eyes . 
He lay down and slept peacefully . 
The next morning the King came , anxious for news . 
How have you got on this time ? he asked . 
I played ninepins , he answered , and lost a few pence . 
Didn't you shudder then ? No such luck , said he I made myself merry . 
They placed the coffin on the ground , and he approached it and took off the cover . 
In it lay a dead man . 
He felt his face , and it was cold as ice . 
Wait , he said I'll heat you up a bit , went to the fire , warmed his hand , and laid it on the man's face , but the dead remained cold . 
Then he lifted him out , sat down at the fire , laid him on his knee , and rubbed his arms that the blood should circulate again . 
Then the six men came and carried him out again . 
I simply can't shudder , he said , and it's clear I sha'n't learn it in a lifetime here . 
Then a man entered , of more than ordinary size and of a very fearful appearance but he was old and had a white beard . 
Oh ! you miserable creature , now you will soon know what it is to shudder , he cried , for you must die . 
Not so quickly , answered the youth . 
If I am to die , you must catch me first . 
I shall soon lay hold of you , spoke the monster . 
Gently , gently , don't boast too much , I'm as strong as you , and stronger too . 
We'll soon see , said the old man if you are stronger than I then I'll let you off come , let's have a try . 
Then he led him through some dark passages to a forge , and grasping an axe he drove one of the anvils with a blow into the earth . 
I can do better than that , cried the youth , and went to the other anvil . 
The old man drew near him in order to watch closely , and his white beard hung right down . 
The youth seized the axe , cleft the anvil open , and jammed in the old man's beard . 
Now I have you , said the youth this time it's your turn to die . 
Then he seized an iron rod and belabored the old man till he , whimpering , begged him to leave off , and he would give him great riches . 
The youth drew out the axe and let him go . 
The old man led him back to the castle and showed him in a cellar three chests of gold . 
One of these , said he , belongs to the poor , one to the King , and the third is yours . 
At that moment twelve struck , and the spirit vanished , leaving the youth alone in the dark . 
I'll surely be able to find a way out , said he , and groping about he at length found his way back to the room , and fell asleep at his fire . 
Then the King spoke You have freed the castle from its curse , and you shall marry my daughter . 
That's all charming , he said abut I still don't know what it is to shudder . 
Then her maid said I'll help you we'll soon make him shudder . 
So she went out to the stream that flowed through the garden , and had a pail full of little gudgeons brought to her . 
Then he awoke and cried out Oh ! how I shudder , how I shudder , dear wife ! Yes , now I know what shuddering is . 
RUMPELSTILTZKIN THERE was once upon a time a poor miller who had a very beautiful daughter . 
Then he closed the door behind him and left her alone inside . 
So the poor miller's daughter sat down , and didn't know what in the world she was to do . 
She hadn't the least idea of how to spin straw into gold , and became at last so miserable that she began to cry . 
What will you give me if I spin it for you ? asked the manikin . 
My necklace , replied the girl . 
The little man took the necklace , sat himself down at the wheel , and whir , whir , whir , the wheel went round three times , and the bobbin was full . 
The manikin took the ring , and whir ! round went the spinning wheel again , and when morning broke he had spun all the straw into glittering gold . 
She's only a miller's daughter , it's true , he thought but I couldn't find a richer wife if I were to search the whole world over . 
Then promise me when you are Queen to give me your first child . 
When the King came in the morning , and found everything as he had desired , he straightway made her his wife , and the miller's daughter became a queen . 
The Queen was in a great state , and offered the little man all the riches in her kingdom if he would only leave her the child . 
But the manikin said No , a living creature is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world . 
Is your name , perhaps , Sheepshanks Cruickshanks , Spindleshanks ? but he always replied That's not my name . 
But one day a most unexpected misfortune befell them . 
Their father , who had until this moment prospered in all ways , suddenly lost every ship he had upon the sea , either by dint of pirates , shipwreck , or fire . 
Then he heard that his clerks in distant countries , whom he trusted entirely , had proved unfaithful and at last from great wealth he fell into the direst poverty . 
But they soon found that they were left alone , and that their former friends even attributed their misfortunes to their own extravagance , and showed no intention of offering them any help . 
Roughly clothed , and living in the simplest way , the girls regretted unceasingly the luxuries and amusements of their former life only the youngest tried to be brave and cheerful . 
But they would do nothing of the sort , and , because she was not as doleful as themselves , they declared that this miserable life was all she was fit for . 
But she was really far prettier and cleverer than they were indeed , she was so lovely that she was always called Beauty . 
After two years , when they were all beginning to get used to their new life , something happened to disturb their tranquillity . 
Their father received the news that one of his ships , which he had believed to be lost , had come safely into port with a rich cargo . 
But this only vexed her sisters , who fancied she was blaming them for having asked for such costly things . 
Her father , however , was pleased , but as he thought that at her age she certainly ought to like pretty presents , he told her to choose something . 
Well , dear father , she said , as you insist upon it , I beg that you will bring me a rose . 
I have not seen one since we came here , and I love them so much . 
It seemed to the merchant very strange that no snow had fallen in the avenue , which was entirely composed of orange trees , covered with flowers and fruit . 
When he reached the first court of the castle he saw before him a flight of agate steps , and went up them , and passed through several splendidly furnished rooms . 
Thinking that this must be prepared for someone who was expected , he sat down to wait till he should come , and very soon fell into a sweet sleep . 
Being naturally timid , the silence began to terrify him , and he resolved to search once more through all the rooms but it was of no use . 
The merchant , in ecstacies with all he saw and heard , said to himself All this must be meant for me . 
I will go this minute and bring my children to share all these delights . 
In spite of being so cold and weary when he reached the castle , he had taken his horse to the stable and fed it . 
Now he thought he would saddle it for his homeward journey , and he turned down the path which led to the stable . 
This path had a hedge of roses on each side of it , and the merchant thought he had never seen or smelt such exquisite flowers . 
They reminded him of his promise to Beauty , and he stopped and had just gathered one to take to her when he was startled by a strange noise behind him . 
The merchant , terrified by these furious words , dropped the fatal rose , and , throwing himself on his knees , cried Pardon me , noble sir . 
But the Beast's anger was not lessened by this speech . 
You are very ready with excuses and flattery , he cried but that will not save you from the death you deserve . 
A king's ransom would hardly have procured all that my other daughters asked . 
he said but I thought that I might at least take Beauty her rose . 
I beg you to forgive me , for you see I meant no harm . 
If she comes at all she must come willingly . 
On no other condition will I have her . 
See if any one of them is courageous enough , and loves you well enough to come and save your life . 
You seem to be an honest man , so I will trust you to go home . 
I give you a month to see if either of your daughters will come back with you and stay here , to let you go free . 
If neither of them is willing , you must come alone , after bidding them good by for ever , for then you will belong to me . 
And do not imagine that you can hide from me , for if you fail to keep your word I will come and fetch you ! added the Beast grimly . 
The merchant accepted this proposal , though he did not really think any of his daughters could be persuaded to come . 
He promised to return at the time appointed , and then , anxious to escape from the presence of the Beast , he asked permission to set off at once . 
But the Beast answered that he could not go until next day . 
Then you will find a horse ready for you , he said . 
Now go and eat your supper , and await my orders . 
But he was too terrified to eat , and only tasted a few of the dishes , for fear the Beast should be angry if he did not obey his orders . 
When he had finished he heard a great noise in the next room , which he knew meant that the Beast was coming . 
Then the Beast warned him to remember their agreement , and to prepare his daughter exactly for what she had to expect . 
Do not get up to morrow , he added , until you see the sun and hear a golden bell ring . 
Then you will find your breakfast waiting for you here , and the horse you are to ride will be ready in the courtyard . 
He will also bring you back again when you come with your daughter a month hence . 
But this excited their curiosity so greatly that presently he told them his adventures from beginning to end , and then they were all very unhappy . 
But he reminded them that he had promised to go back . 
Poor Beauty , much distressed , said to them I have , indeed , caused this misfortune , but I assure you I did it innocently . 
I will therefore go back with my father to keep his promise . 
At first nobody would hear of this arrangement , and her father and brothers , who loved her dearly , declared that nothing should make them let her go but Beauty was firm . 
Her father still tried to persuade her to go back , but in vain . 
The Beast must be very hungry , said Beauty , trying to laugh , if he makes all this rejoicing over the arrival of his prey . 
But , in spite of her anxiety , she could not help admiring all the wonderful things she saw . 
But when the Beast really appeared , though she trembled at the sight of him , she made a great effort to hide her terror , and saluted him respectfully . 
This evidently pleased the Beast . 
After looking at her he said , in a tone that might have struck terror into the boldest heart , though he did not seem to be angry Good evening , old man . 
The merchant was too terrified to reply , but Beauty answered sweetly Good evening , Beast . 
Have you come willingly ? asked the Beast . 
Will you be content to stay here when your father goes away ? Beauty answered bravely that she was quite prepared to stay . 
I am pleased with you , said the Beast . 
As you have come of your own accord , you may stay . 
As for you , old man , he added , turning to the merchant , at sunrise to morrow you will take your departure . 
Then turning to Beauty , he said Take your father into the next room , and help him to choose everything you think your brothers and sisters would like to have . 
You will find two traveling trunks there fill them as full as you can . 
It is only just that you should send them something very precious as a remembrance of yourself . 
They were greatly surprised at the riches it contained . 
Let us wait and see , answered Beauty . 
I cannot believe that he meant to deceive us . 
All we can do is to fasten them up and leave them ready . 
So they did this and returned to the little room , where , to their astonishment , they found breakfast ready . 
The merchant ate his with a good appetite , as the Beast's generosity made him believe that he might perhaps venture to come back soon and see Beauty . 
They went down into the courtyard , where two horses were waiting , one loaded with the two trunks , the other for him to ride . 
Then Beauty began to cry , and wandered sadly back to her own room . 
But she soon found that she was very sleepy , and as she had nothing better to do she lay down and instantly fell asleep . 
Here you will be rewarded for all you have suffered elsewhere . 
Your every wish shall be gratified . 
Only try to find me out , no matter how I may be disguised , as I love you dearly , and in making me happy you will find your own happiness . 
Be as true hearted as you are beautiful , and we shall have nothing left to wish for . 
What can I do , Prince , to make you happy ? said Beauty . 
Only be grateful , he answered , and do not trust too much to your eyes . 
And , above all , do not desert me until you have saved me from my cruel misery . 
Only do not let yourself be deceived by appearances . 
He said I could make him happy , said Beauty to herself . 
It seems , then , that this horrible Beast keeps him a prisoner . 
How can I set him free ? I wonder why they both told me not to trust to appearances ? I don't understand it . 
But , after all , it was only a dream , so why should I trouble myself about it ? I had better go and find something to do to amuse myself . 
So she got up and began to explore some of the many rooms of the palace . 
The first she entered was lined with mirrors , and Beauty saw herself reflected on every side , and thought she had never seen such a charming room . 
By this time it was growing dusk , and wax candles in diamond and ruby candlesticks were beginning to light themselves in every room . 
But presently she heard the Beast coming , and wondered tremblingly if he meant to eat her up now . 
However , as he did not seem at all ferocious , and only said gruffly Good evening , Beauty , she answered cheerfully and managed to conceal her terror . 
Then the Beast asked her how she had been amusing herself , and she told him all the rooms she had seen . 
And after about an hour's talk Beauty began to think that the Beast was not nearly so terrible as she had supposed at first . 
Say yes' or no' without fear , he replied . 
Oh ! no , Beast , said Beauty hastily . 
Since you will not , good night , Beauty , he said . 
And she answered , Good night , Beast , very glad to find that her refusal had not provoked him . 
And after he was gone she was very soon in bed and asleep , and dreaming of her unknown Prince . 
The days passed swiftly in different amusements , and after a while Beauty found out another strange thing in the palace , which often pleased her when she was tired of being alone . 
Beauty had quite ceased to be afraid of him . 
Now she knew that he was really gentle in spite of his ferocious looks and his dreadful voice . 
So she answered that she was longing to see her home once more . 
Upon hearing this the Beast seemed sadly distressed , and cried miserably . 
Only let me go for two months , and I promise to come back to you and stay for the rest of my life . 
The Beast , who had been sighing dolefully while she spoke , now replied I cannot refuse you anything you ask , even though it should cost me my life . 
Take the four boxes you will find in the room next to your own , and fill them with everything you wish to take with you . 
You will not need any chariot to bring you back . 
Fear nothing , sleep peacefully , and before long you shall see your father once more . 
Then she went to bed , but could hardly sleep for joy . 
And when at last she did begin to dream of her beloved Prince she was grieved to see him stretched upon a grassy bank , sad and weary , and hardly like himself . 
What is the matter ? she cried . 
I would die to save him from pain . 
I assure you it is not his fault that he is so ugly . 
Where could she be ? She got up and dressed hastily , and then saw that the boxes she had packed the night before were all in the room . 
While she was wondering by what magic the Beast had transported them and herself to this strange place she suddenly heard her father's voice , and rushed out and greeted him joyfully . 
Her brothers and sisters were all astonished at her appearance , as they had never expected to see her again , and there was no end to the questions they asked her . 
She had also much to hear about what had happened to them while she was away , and of her father's journey home . 
But when they heard that she had only come to be with them for a short time , and then must go back to the Beast's palace for ever , they lamented loudly . 
Then Beauty asked her father what he thought could be the meaning of her strange dreams , and why the Prince constantly begged her not to trust to appearances . 
At any rate , for two months she need not decide , but could enjoy herself with her sisters . 
See what happens when people do not keep their promises ! If you had delayed one day more , you would have found him dead . 
She rushed down it , and , sure enough , there was the cave , and in it lay the Beast asleep , as Beauty thought . 
Quite glad to have found him , she ran up and stroked his head , but , to her horror , he did not move or open his eyes . 
Oh ! he is dead and it is all my fault , said Beauty , crying bitterly . 
Oh ! Beast , how you frightened me ! she cried . 
I never knew how much I loved you until just now , when I feared I was too late to save your life . 
Can you really love such an ugly creature as I am ? said the Beast faintly . 
Ah ! Beauty , you only came just in time . 
I was dying because I thought you had forgotten your promise . 
But go back now and rest , I shall see you again by and by . 
Beauty answered politely , and quite enjoyed telling him all that had happened to her . 
One of them Beauty recognized as the stately lady she had seen in her dreams the other was also so grand and queenly that Beauty hardly knew which to greet first . 
But the one she already knew said to her companion Well , Queen , this is Beauty , who has had the courage to rescue your son from the terrible enchantment . 
They love one another , and only your consent to their marriage is wanting to make them perfectly happy . 
I consent with all my heart , cried the Queen . 
La Belle et la Bete . 
THE MASTER MAID ONCE upon a time there was a king who had many sons . 
When he had traveled about for several days , he came to a giant's house , and hired himself to the giant as a servant . 
In the morning the giant had to go out to pasture his goats , and as he was leaving the house he told the King's son that he must clean out the stable . 
And after you have done that , he said , you need not do any more work today , for you have come to a kind master , and that you shall find . 
If you do , I will take your life . 
So he went into the first room . 
A cauldron was hanging from the walls it was boiling , but the Prince could see no fire under it . 
I wonder what is inside it , he thought , and dipped a lock of his hair in , and the hair became just as if it were all made of copper . 
That's a nice kind of soup . 
If anyone were to taste that his throat would be gilded , said the youth , and then he went into the next chamber . 
There , too , a cauldron was hanging from the wall , bubbling and boiling , but there was no fire under this either . 
I will just try what this is like too , said the Prince , thrusting another lock of his hair into it , and it came out silvered over . 
Such costly soup is not to be had in my father's palace , said the Prince but everything depends on how it tastes , and then he went into the third room . 
Some talk about going from bad to worse , said the Prince but this is better and better . 
If he boils gold here , what can he boil in there ? He was determined to see , and went through the door into the fourth room . 
Oh ! in heaven's name what are you doing here ? said she who sat upon the bench . 
I took the place of servant here yesterday , said the Prince . 
May you soon have a better place , if you have come to serve here ! said she . 
Oh , but I think I have got a kind master , said the Prince . 
He has not given me hard work to do today . 
When I have cleaned out the stable I shall be done . 
Yes , but how will you be able to do that ? she asked again . 
If you clean it out as other people do , ten pitch forksful will come in for every one you throw out . 
But when evening was drawing near she said that it would now be better for him to clean out the stable before the giant came home . 
Then came the giant home with the goats . 
Have you cleaned the stable ? asked the giant . 
Yes , now it is clean and sweet , master , said the King's son . 
I shall see about that , said the giant , and went round to the stable , but it was just as the Prince had said . 
You have certainly been talking to my Master maid , for you never got that out of your own head , said the giant . 
Master maid ! What kind of a thing is that , master ? said the Prince , making himself look as stupid as an ass I should like to see that . 
Well , you will see her quite soon enough , said the giant . 
So he went to her . 
Then she asked him what he had to do that day . 
Oh ! not very dangerous work , I fancy , said the King's son . 
I have only to go up the mountain side after his horse . 
Well , how do you mean to set about it ? asked the Master maid . 
Oh ! there is no great art in riding a horse home , said the King's son . 
I think I must have ridden friskier horses before now . 
Yes , but it is not so easy a thing as you think to ride the horse home , said the Master maid but I will teach you what to do . 
Then the Prince went back into his room again , and began to hum and to sing . 
Toward evening the giant came home . 
Have you fetched the horse back from the mountain side ? he asked . 
That I have , master it was an amusing horse to ride , but I rode him straight home , and put him in the stable too , said the Prince . 
I will see about that , said the giant , and went out to the stable , but the horse was standing there just as the Prince had said . 
You have certainly been talking with my Master maid , for you never got that out of your own head , said the giant again . 
Oh ! you will see her quite soon enough , said the giant . 
On the morning of the third day the giant again had to go into the wood with the goats . 
Today you must go underground and fetch my taxes , he said to the Prince . 
So , when the Mastermaid asked him what the giant had set him to do that day , he told her that he was to go underground and get the taxes . 
And how will you set about that ? said the Mastermaid . 
So he set out on his way , and did exactly what the Master maid had told him . 
He went to the rocky wall , and took the club , and knocked on it . 
Then came one so full of sparks that they flew both out of his eyes and his nose . 
What do you want ? said he . 
I was to come here for the giant , and demand the tax for him , said the King's son . 
How much are you to have then ? said the other . 
I ask for no more than I am able to carry with me , said the Prince . 
It is well for you that you have not asked for a horse load , said he who had come out of the rock . 
But now come in with me . 
Have you been for the tax ? said the giant . 
Yes , that I have , master , said the Prince . 
Where have you put it then ? said the giant again . 
The bag of gold is standing there on the bench , said the Prince . 
You have certainly been talking with my Master maid ! said the giant , and if you have I will wring your neck . 
I do wish I could see the thing myself , said he . 
Yes , yes , wait till to morrow , said the giant , and then I myself will take you to her . 
Ah ! master , I thank you but you are only mocking me , said the King's son . 
Next day the giant took him to the Master maid . 
Now , when the giant had slept a good long time , he began to stretch himself on the bench on which he was lying . 
Will it soon boil ? said he It is just beginning , said the first drop of blood on the stool . 
So the giant lay down to sleep again , and slept for a long , long time . 
Then he began to move about a little again . 
When he had slept again for many hours , he began to move and stretch himself . 
Is it not done yet ? said he . 
It is quite ready , said the third drop of blood . 
But there was no one to give him an answer . 
When he saw this , he understood what had happened , and fell into such a rage that he hardly knew what he was doing . 
Well , well , I will soon find a cure for that I have only to call my river sucker , said the giant , and he did call him . 
Oh ! no , do not go , for if you go home to the King's palace you will forget me , I foresee that . 
So at last the Master maid had to yield , for he was so absolutely determined to do it . 
And he took up the apple and bit a piece out of it . 
But no sooner had he got the piece of apple in his mouth than he forgot the Master maid and that he was to go back in the coach to fetch her . 
The Master maid sat by the sea shore for a long , long time , waiting for the Prince , but no Prince came . 
So she went away , and when she had walked a short distance she came to a little hut which stood all alone in a small wood , hard by the King's palace . 
She entered it and asked if she might be allowed to stay there . 
The hut belonged to an old crone , who was also an ill tempered and malicious troll . 
At first she would not let the Master maid remain with her but at last , after a long time , by means of good words and good payment , she obtained leave . 
The old crone did not like this either . 
She scowled , and was very cross , but the Master maid did not trouble herself about that . 
Next morning the sheriff came traveling by there . 
Well , but have you a great deal of money ? said the Master maid . 
Oh ! yes so far as that is concerned , I am not ill off , said the sheriff . 
Well , as he had such a fine lot of money , the Master maid said she would have him , so they sat down to talk . 
But scarcely had they sat down together before the Master maid wanted to jump up again . 
I have forgotten to see to the fire , she said . 
Why should you jump up to do that ? said the sheriff I will do that ! So he jumped up , and went to the chimney in one bound . 
Just tell me when you have got hold of the shovel , said the Master maid . 
Well , I have hold of it now , said the sheriff . 
Then you may hold the shovel , and the shovel you , and pour red hot coals over you , till day dawns , said the Master maid . 
The next day the attorney came riding by the place where the Master maid dwelt . 
Why should you do that ? said the attorney sit still , I will do it . 
So he was on his feet in a moment , and out in the porch . 
Tell me when you have got hold of the door latch , said the Master maid . 
I have hold of it now , cried the attorney . 
Then you may hold the door , and the door you , and may you go between wall and wall till day dawns . 
What a dance the attorney had that night ! He had never had such a waltz before , and he never wished to have such a dance again . 
As soon as the door let go its hold of him , off went the attorney . 
The Master maid answered him as she had answered the other two , that if he had a great deal of money , she would have him . 
So far as that is concerned , I am not ill off , said the bailiff so he was at once told to go home and fetch it , and this he did . 
So it was settled that he was to have the Master maid . 
But hardly had they sat down together before she said that she had forgotten to bring in the calf , and must go out to put it in the byre . 
No , indeed , you shall not do that , said the bailiff I am the one to do that . 
And , big and fat as he was , he went out as briskly as a boy . 
Tell me when you have got hold of the calf's tail , said the Master maid . 
I have hold of it now , cried the bailiff . 
Then may you hold the calf's tail , and the calf's tail hold you , and may you go round the world together till day dawns ! said the Master maid . 
This went on for a long time , and they could not get away from the palace , so they were all in great trouble . 
But all at once , just as they were starting , the bottom of the coach fell in pieces . 
They were just setting out again , but now the horses were not able to draw the coach . 
It was already beginning to be late in the day , and to church they must and would go , so everyone who was in the palace was in a state of distress . 
The Master maid let them have it immediately this time also she would not say no . 
And when they went back again the coach went quicker still , so that most of them did not know how they got back to the palace at all . 
Greet the King , and tell him that , if he is too good to come to me , I am too good to come to him , replied the Master maid . 
Oh ! look how those two there are fighting for the golden apple , said the King's son . 
Yes , and so did we two fight to get out that time when we were in the mountain , said the Master maid . 
So the Prince knew her again , and you may imagine how delighted he was . 
WHY THE SEA IS SALT ONCE upon a time , long , long ago , there were two brothers , the one rich and the other poor . 
If you will do what I ask you , you shall have a whole ham , said he . 
The poor one immediately thanked him , and promised this . 
Well , here is the ham , and now you must go straight to Dead Man's Hall , said the rich brother , throwing the ham to him . 
Well , I will do what I have promised , said the other , and he took the ham and set off . 
He went on and on for the livelong day , and at nightfall he came to a place where there was a bright light . 
I have no doubt this is the place , thought the man with the ham . 
An old man with a long white beard was standing in the outhouse , chopping Yule logs . 
Good evening , said the man with the ham . 
Where are you going at this late hour ? said the man . 
I am going to Dead Man's Hall , if only I am on the right track , answered the poor man . 
Oh ! yes , you are right enough , for it is here , said the old man . 
When you come out again I will teach you how to stop the hand mill , which is useful for almost everything . 
So the man with the ham thanked the other for his good advice , and rapped at the door . 
But , if I sell it , I will have the hand mill which is standing there behind the door . 
Where in the world have you been ? said the old woman . 
Here I have sat waiting hour after hour , and have not even two sticks to lay across each other under the Christmas porridge pot . 
Never mind where I got it you can see that it is a good one , and the water that turns it will never freeze , said the man . 
Now when the rich brother saw all that there was at the banquet and in the house , he was both vexed and angry , for he grudged everything his brother had . 
But , for heaven's sake , tell me where you got your riches from , said he to his brother . 
There you see what has brought me all my wealth ! said he , and brought out the mill , and made it grind first one thing and then another . 
So , when dinner time drew near , he set the mill on the kitchen table , and said Grind herrings and milk pottage , and do it both quickly and well . 
So the mill began to grind herrings and milk pottage , and first all the dishes and tubs were filled , and then it came out all over the kitchen floor . 
It may be that he finds he is not good at making pottage and I should do well to help him . 
But the brother would not take it until the other paid him three hundred dollars , and that he was obliged to do . 
Now the poor brother had both the money and the mill again . 
After a long , long time came also a skipper who wished to see the mill . 
He asked if it could make salt . 
When he had gone a little way out to sea he took the mill on deck . 
Grind salt , and grind both quickly and well , said the skipper . 
There lies the mill at the bottom of the sea , and still , day by day , it grinds on and that is why the sea is salt . 
THE MASTER CAT OR , PUSS IN BOOTS THERE was a miller who left no more estate to the three sons he had than his mill , his ass , and his cat . 
The partition was soon made . 
Neither scrivener nor attorney was sent for . 
They would soon have eaten up all the poor patrimony . 
The eldest had the mill , the second the ass , and the youngest nothing but the cat . 
The poor young fellow was quite comfortless at having so poor a lot . 
The Cat's master did not build very much upon what he said . 
Scarce was he lain down but he had what he wanted . 
A rash and foolish young rabbit jumped into his bag , and Monsieur Puss , immediately drawing close the strings , took and killed him without pity . 
Proud of his prey , he went with it to the palace and asked to speak with his majesty . 
has commanded me to present to your majesty from him . 
Tell thy master , said the king , that I thank him and that he does me a great deal of pleasure . 
He went and made a present of these to the king , as he had done before of the rabbit which he took in the warren . 
The king , in like manner , received the partridges with great pleasure , and ordered him some money for drink . 
The Cat continued for two or three months thus to carry his Majesty , from time to time , game of his master's taking . 
You have nothing else to do but go and wash yourself in the river , in that part I shall show you , and leave the rest to me . 
The Marquis of Carabas did what the Cat advised him to , without knowing why or wherefore . 
While he was washing the King passed by , and the Cat began to cry out Help ! help ! My Lord Marquis of Carabas is going to be drowned . 
This cunning Cat had hidden them under a great stone . 
The King immediately commanded the officers of his wardrobe to run and fetch one of his best suits for the Lord Marquis of Carabas . 
The King would needs have him come into the coach and take part of the airing . 
The King did not fail asking of the mowers to whom the meadow they were mowing belonged . 
To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , answered they altogether , for the Cat's threats had made them terribly afraid . 
You see , sir , said the Marquis , this is a meadow which never fails to yield a plentiful harvest every year . 
The King , who passed by a moment after , would needs know to whom all that corn , which he then saw , did belong . 
To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , replied the reapers , and the King was very well pleased with it , as well as the Marquis , whom he congratulated thereupon . 
The Master Cat , who went always before , said the same words to all he met , and the King was astonished at the vast estates of my Lord Marquis of Carabas . 
The ogre received him as civilly as an ogre could do , and made him sit down . 
That is true , answered the ogre very briskly and to convince you , you shall see me now become a lion . 
A little while after , when Puss saw that the ogre had resumed his natural form , he came down , and owned he had been very much frightened . 
Impossible ! cried the ogre you shall see that presently . 
And at the same time he changed himself into a mouse , and began to run about the floor . 
Puss no sooner perceived this but he fell upon him and ate him up . 
Meanwhile the King , who saw , as he passed , this fine castle of the ogre's , had a mind to go into it . 
The Marquis gave his hand to the Princess , and followed the King , who went first . 
The Marquis , making several low bows , accepted the honor which his Majesty conferred upon him , and forthwith , that very same day , married the Princess . 
Puss became a great lord , and never ran after mice any more but only for his diversion . 
When she went away she said to me Be careful of my gifts , good man see that you do not lose the ring or forget to water the pinks . 
Take them both , then , my dear child , he added , and your brother shall have everything else . 
The two children seemed quite contented , and when their father died they wept for him , and divided his possessions as he had told them . 
I like order in my house . 
Felicia , who was very gentle , said nothing , but stood up crying quietly while Bruno , for that was her brother's name , sat comfortably by the fire . 
Felicia did not answer , but she cried more bitterly than ever , and went away to her own little room . 
Be very sure that I will take care of you , and water you well , and never allow any cruel hand to tear you from your stems . 
As she leaned over them she noticed that they were very dry . 
So taking her pitcher , she ran off in the clear moonlight to the fountain , which was at some distance . 
Six maids of honor carried her train , and she leaned upon the arm of another . 
So Felicia came forward and saluted the Queen timidly , but with so much grace that all were surprised . 
What are you doing here , my pretty child ? asked the Queen . 
Are you not afraid of robbers ? Ah ! madam , said Felicia , a poor shepherdess who has nothing to lose does not fear robbers . 
You are not very rich , then ? said the Queen , smiling . 
I am so poor , answered Felicia , that a pot of pinks and a silver ring are my only possessions in the world . 
But you have a heart , said the Queen . 
You are quite right to take care of your heart , pretty one , said the Queen . 
But tell me , have you supped ? No , madam , answered Felicia my brother ate all the supper there was . 
Then the Queen ordered that a place should be made for her at the table , and herself loaded Felicia's plate with good things but she was too much astonished to be hungry . 
I want to know what you were doing at the fountain so late ? said the Queen presently . 
The shepherdess threw herself at the Queen's feet , and thanked her humbly for her gracious words . 
Go , Felicia , said the Queen , stroking her cheek softly I will wait here until you come back . 
The first thing she did when she reached her room was to throw the cabbage out of the window . 
Ah ! shepherdess , said the hen , don't kill me I am rather a gossip , and I can tell you some surprising things that you will like to hear . 
to exchange her for the fairy's little son . 
After wandering about until she was half dead with cold and fatigue she reached this cottage . 
After seeking me everywhere he believed that I must have been drowned , or eaten up by wild beasts in the forest . 
It was one of them whom you threw out of your window yesterday . 
I don't know how it was that he could speak I have never heard either of them say a word before , nor have I been able to do it myself until now . 
But we must not despair it seems to me , after what you have told me , that something must be going to happen soon . 
Just now , however , I must go and look for my pinks , which I love better than anything in the world . 
In a moment not a tail or a whisker was to be seen . 
Each one had made for his hole as fast as his legs could carry him , so that the Princess could safely take her pot of pinks . 
She found them nearly dying for want of water , and hastily poured all that was left in the pitcher upon them . 
At this moment in came Bruno . 
The fresh air soon made her open her pretty eyes , and there before her stood the Queen of the Woods , looking as charming as ever . 
You have a bad brother , she said I saw he turned you out . 
Shall I punish him for it ? Ah ! no , madam , she said I am not angry with him . 
But supposing he was not your brother , after all , what would you say then ? asked the Queen . 
Oh ! but I think he must be , said Felicia . 
She was interrupted at this moment by the arrival of a very handsome young man . 
He wore a coat of green velvet fastened with emerald clasps , and had a crown of pinks on his head . 
He knelt upon one knee and kissed the Queen's hand . 
Ah ! she cried , my pink , my dear son , what a happiness to see you restored to your natural shape by Felicia's aid ! And she embraced him joyfully . 
Whereupon a fairy with whom I had quarrelled changed him into a pink , and I could do nothing to prevent it . 
You can imagine how angry I was , and how I tried to find some means of undoing the mischief she had done but there was no help for it . 
And you see everything has come right , as I hoped it would . 
Your giving me the silver ring was the sign that the power of the charm was nearly over , and my enemy's last chance was to frighten you with her army of rats . 
That she did not succeed in doing so now , my dear Felicia , if you will be married to my son with this silver ring your future happiness is certain . 
Do you think him handsome and amiable enough to be willing to marry him ? Madam , replied Felicia , blushing , you overwhelm me with your kindness . 
How can I explain to you the cause of my hesitation ? I feel , for the first time in my life , how happy it would make me to be beloved . 
With her bright eyes , and the charming color in her cheeks , she was altogether such a dazzling sight that the Prince could hardly bear it . 
How pretty you are , Felicia ! he cried . 
Don't keep me in suspense , I entreat you say that you will marry me . 
Ah ! said the Queen , smiling , I think she will not refuse now . 
The Queen kissed her , and said Well , to please you , let me see what I can do for this cross Bruno . 
Then the Queen touched Bruno himself , and made him gentle and polite and grateful , and he thanked her and the Princess a thousand times . 
Lastly , the Queen restored the hen and the cabbages to their natural forms , and left them all very contented . 
The Prince and Princess were married as soon as possible with great splendor , and lived happily ever after . 
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy . 
Each one took a different road , and the two eldest met with many adventures but it is about the youngest that you are going to hear . 
He was young , and gay , and handsome , and knew everything that a prince ought to know and as for his courage , there was simply no end to it . 
Hardly a day passed without his buying several dogs big and little , greyhounds , mastiffs , spaniels , and lapdogs . 
He journeyed from day to day , not knowing where he was going , until at last , just at nightfall , he reached a great , gloomy forest . 
He did not know his way , and , to make matters worse , it began to thunder , and the rain poured down . 
At length , guided by the light , he reached the door of the most splendid castle he could have imagined . 
This door was of gold covered with carbuncles , and it was the pure red light which shone from them that had shown him the way through the forest . 
There he saw a deer's foot hanging by a chain of diamonds , and he began to wonder who could live in this magnificent castle . 
They must feel very secure against robbers , he said to himself . 
He could not help admiring everything he saw , and the deft way in which the hands waited on him , though they sometimes appeared so suddenly that they made him jump . 
The table was laid for supper with two golden plates , and golden spoons and forks , and the sideboard was covered with dishes and glasses of crystal set with precious stones . 
The Prince hastily stopped up his ears , but even then the sight of these comical musicians sent him into fits of laughter . 
What funny thing shall I see next ? he said to himself , and instantly the door opened , and in came a tiny figure covered by a long black veil . 
It was conducted by two cats wearing black mantles and carrying swords , and a large party of cats followed , who brought in cages full of rats and mice . 
King's son , said the White Cat , I beg you to spare me these compliments , for I am not used to them . 
But now , she added , let supper be served , and let the musicians be silent , as the Prince does not understand what they are saying . 
So the mysterious hands began to bring in the supper , and first they put on the table two dishes , one containing stewed pigeons and the other a fricassee of fat mice . 
Presently he noticed that on the little paw that was next him the White Cat wore a bracelet containing a portrait , and he begged to be allowed to look at it . 
When he looked out all the cats were assembled in the courtyard , some leading greyhounds , some blowing horns , for the White Cat was going out hunting . 
The White Cat herself was riding a monkey , which climbed even up to the eagles' nests when she had a fancy for the young eaglets . 
But the White Cat said to him King's son , do not trouble yourself I am your friend , and will make everything easy for you . 
You can still stay here for a day , as the good wooden horse can take you to your country in twelve hours . 
He thanked her a thousand times , and said good by quite sadly when the time came for him to set out . 
The days have passed so quickly with you , he said , I only wish I could take you with me now . 
But the White Cat shook her head and sighed deeply in answer . 
Fond as they all were of one another , the two eldest could not help being glad to think that their dogs certainly had a better chance . 
The next morning they started in the same chariot . 
The elder brothers carried in baskets two such tiny , fragile dogs that they hardly dared to touch them . 
As for the turnspit , he ran after the chariot , and got so covered with mud that one could hardly see what he was like at all . 
They were already arranging between themselves to share the kingdom equally , when the youngest stepped forward , drawing from his pocket the acorn the White Cat had given him . 
He opened it quickly , and there upon a white cushion they saw a dog so small that it could easily have been put through a ring . 
The Prince laid it upon the ground , and it got up at once and began to dance . 
The King did not know what to say , for it was impossible that anything could be prettier than this little creature . 
The brothers were not very willing to set out again , but the two eldest consented because it gave them another chance , and they started as before . 
The youngest again mounted the wooden horse , and rode back at full speed to his beloved White Cat . 
Every door of the castle stood wide open , and every window and turret was illuminated , so it looked more wonderful than before . 
The hands hastened to meet him , and led the wooden horse off to the stable , while he hurried in to find the White Cat . 
She was asleep in a little basket on a white satin cushion , but she very soon started up when she heard the Prince , and was overjoyed at seeing him once more . 
How could I hope that you would come back to me King's son ? she said . 
But when the Prince asked her how it was that she was so wise , she only said King's son , do not ask me guess what you please . 
I may not tell you anything . 
It was drawn by twelve snow white horses , harnessed four abreast their trappings were flame colored velvet , embroidered with diamonds . 
A hundred chariots followed , each drawn by eight horses , and filled with officers in splendid uniforms , and a thousand guards surrounded the procession . 
Go ! said the White Cat , and when you appear before the King in such state he surely will not refuse you the crown which you deserve . 
Take this walnut , but do not open it until you are before him , then you will find in it the piece of stuff you asked me for . 
So the Prince kissed her little paw and set out . 
You can imagine how fast he traveled when I tell you that they reached the King's palace in just half the time it had taken the wooden horse to get there . 
The Princes were angry , and were beginning to complain that it was a trick , when suddenly the trumpets sounded and the youngest Prince came in . 
He cracked it , and there lay a cherry stone . 
Everybody was looking on , and the King was chuckling to himself at the idea of finding the piece of muslin in a nutshell . 
However , the Prince cracked the cherry stone , but everyone laughed when he saw it contained only its own kernel . 
He opened that and found a grain of wheat , and in that was a millet seed . 
This time she was expecting him , the path was strewn with flowers , and a thousand braziers were burning scented woods which perfumed the air . 
Seated in a gallery from which she could see his arrival , the White Cat waited for him . 
Well , King's son , she said , here you are once more , without a crown . 
Never mind , she answered , it's just as well to try and deserve it . 
As you must take back a lovely princess with you next time I will be on the look out for one for you . 
In the meantime let us enjoy ourselves to night I have ordered a battle between my cats and the river rats on purpose to amuse you . 
So this year slipped away even more pleasantly than the preceding ones . 
Sometimes the Prince could not help asking the White Cat how it was she could talk . 
Perhaps you are a fairy , he said . 
Or has some enchanter changed you into a cat ? But she only gave him answers that told him nothing . 
But nothing he could say altered her determination , and at last he drew his sword , and desperately , with a trembling hand , cut off the little white head . 
My father reigned over six kingdoms . 
On the way they had to pass near an old castle belonging to the fairies . 
She began to wish to try them for herself , and turned her steps in the direction of the garden . 
Now the more difficult it became to obtain the fruit , the more the Queen was determined that have it she would . 
Ah ! my dear madam , cried the Queen , is there nothing else that you will take for the fruit ? I will give you my kingdoms willingly . 
No , replied the old fairy , we will have nothing but your little daughter . 
You see they grew upon fairy trees . 
The old fairy gave her golden baskets in which to take the fruit away , and it was as much as four hundred mules could carry . 
This time they came themselves to fetch me , in a chariot of pearl drawn by sea horses , followed by the dragon , who was led with chains of diamonds . 
My cradle was placed between the old fairies , who loaded me with caresses , and away we whirled through the air to a tower which they had built on purpose for me . 
When he saw that I observed him he saluted me with great deference . 
But after that he came again many times and at last I consented to marry him , but the question was how was I to escape from my tower . 
Before he had time to defend himself my unhappy lover was swallowed up by the dragon . 
And you have won it , lovely Princess , interrupted the Prince . 
You are indeed wonderfully like him , resumed the Princess in voice , in features , and everything and if you really love me all my troubles will be at an end . 
And mine too , cried the Prince , throwing himself at her feet , if you will consent to marry me . 
So the Prince gave her his hand and led her out , and they mounted the chariot together it was even more splendid than before , and so was the whole company . 
Even the horses' shoes were of rubies with diamond nails , and I suppose that is the first time such a thing was ever seen . 
The Prince saw his brothers walking upon the terrace , each with a lovely princess , and they came to meet him , asking if he had also found a wife . 
And then they set out together for the town . 
Each prince and princess rode in a splendid carriage the horses were decked with plumes of feathers , and glittered with gold . 
After them came the youngest prince , and last of all the crystal chair , at which everybody looked with admiration and curiosity . 
When the courtiers saw them coming they hastened to tell the King . 
Are the ladies beautiful ? he asked anxiously . 
And when they answered that nobody had ever before seen such lovely princesses he seemed quite annoyed . 
However , he received them graciously , but found it impossible to choose between them . 
She saluted the King gracefully , while a murmur of admiration rose from all around . 
Sire , she said , I am not come to deprive you of the throne you fill so worthily . 
I have already six kingdoms , permit me to bestow one upon you , and upon each of your sons . 
I ask nothing but your friendship , and your consent to my marriage with your youngest son we shall still have three kingdoms left for ourselves . 
The King and all the courtiers could not conceal their joy and astonishment , and the marriage of the three Princes was celebrated at once . 
The festivities lasted several months , and then each king and queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after . 
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy . 
THE GOLD SPINNERS ONCE upon a time , in a large forest , there lived an old woman and three maidens . 
They were all three beautiful , but the youngest was the fairest . 
Their hut was quite hidden by trees , and none saw their beauty but the sun by day , and the moon by night , and the eyes of the stars . 
The thread had to be fine and even , and when done was locked up in a secret chamber by the old woman , who twice or thrice every summer went a journey . 
Weary of seeking his way , he flung himself down under a tree , leaving his horse to browse at will , and fell asleep . 
The sun had set when he awoke and began once more to try and find his way out of the forest . 
At last he perceived a narrow foot path , which he eagerly followed and found that it led him to a small hut . 
She set food before him , and was so delighted with his conversation that she forgot the old woman's caution , and lingered for hours . 
After three days' search , they found the hut . 
The Prince was still sitting by the door and had been so happy in the maiden's company that the time had seemed like a single hour . 
Before leaving he promised to return and fetch her to his father's court , where he would make her his bride . 
When he had gone , she sat down to her wheel to make up for lost time , but was dismayed to find that her thread had lost all its brightness . 
Her heart beat fast and she wept bitterly , for she remembered the old woman's warning and knew not what misfortune might now befall her . 
The old woman returned in the night and knew by the tarnished thread what had happened in her absence . 
She was furiously angry and told the maiden that she had brought down misery both on herself and on the Prince . 
The maiden could not rest for thinking of this . 
At last she could bear it no longer , and resolved to seek help from the Prince . 
She answered Fly away , until thou comest to a splendid town , where stands a king's palace seek out the king's son and tell him that a great misfortune has befallen me . 
Then she told the raven how her thread had lost its brightness , how terribly angry the old woman was , and how she feared some great disaster . 
The raven promised faithfully to do her bidding , and , spreading its wings , flew away . 
The maiden now went home and worked hard all day at winding up the yarn her elder sisters had spun , for the old woman would let her spin no longer . 
Toward evening she heard the raven's craa , craa , from the pine tree and eagerly hastened thither to hear the answer . 
By great good fortune the raven had found a wind wizard's son in the palace garden , who understood the speech of birds , and to him he had entrusted the message . 
When the Prince heard it , he was very sorrowful , and took counsel with his friends how to free the maiden . 
The wind wizard's son did this , and the raven flew so swiftly that it reached the hut that same evening . 
The maiden thanked the bird heartily and went home , telling no one what she had heard . 
As the ninth night drew near she became very unhappy , for she feared lest some terrible mischance should arise and ruin all . 
On this night she crept quietly out of the house and waited trembling at some little distance from the hut . 
When he saw the maiden he sprang from his horse , lifted her into the saddle , and then , mounting behind , rode homeward . 
The moon shone so brightly that they had no difficulty in seeing the marked trees . 
Next morning , when the youngest girl did not come to her work , the old woman asked where she was . 
The sisters pretended not to know , but the old woman easily guessed what had happened , and , as she was in reality a wicked witch , determined to punish the fugitives . 
Cast her from his arms for ever , Bury her in the rippling river . 
At midday the Prince and his men came to a deep river , spanned by so narrow a bridge that only one rider could cross at a time . 
The horse on which the Prince and the maiden were riding had just reached the middle when the magic ball flew by . 
The horse in its fright suddenly reared , and before anyone could stop it flung the maiden into the swift current below . 
At last he became so ill his life was despaired of , and in great alarm the King caused all the wizards of his country to be summoned . 
But none could cure him . 
At last the wind wizard's son said to the King Send for the old wizard from Finland he knows more than all the wizards of your kingdom put together . 
A messenger was at once sent to Finland , and a week later the old wizard himself arrived on the wings of the wind . 
Honored King , said the wizard , the wind has blown this illness upon your son , and a magic ball has snatched away his beloved . 
This it is which makes him grieve so constantly . 
Let the wind blow upon him that it may blow away his sorrow . 
Then the King made his son go out into the wind , and he gradually recovered and told his father all . 
Forget the maiden , said the King , and take another bride but the Prince said he could never love another . 
A year afterward he came suddenly upon the bridge where his beloved met her death . 
As he recalled the misfortune he wept bitterly , and would have given all he possessed to have her once more alive . 
In the midst of his grief he thought he heard a voice singing , and looked round , but could see no one . 
He was greatly astonished , sprang from his horse , and looked everywhere to see if no one were hidden under the bridge but no one was there . 
He told them what had befallen their sister the year before , and how he had twice heard a strange song , but yet could see no singer . 
They said that the yellow water lily could be none other than their sister , who was not dead , but transformed by the magic ball . 
Before he went to bed , the eldest made a cake of magic herbs , which she gave him to eat . 
In the night he dreamed that he was living in the forest and could understand all that the birds said to each other . 
Having promised this , he joyfully returned home , and as he was riding through the forest he could perfectly understand all that the birds said . 
He heard a thrush say to a magpie How stupid men are ! they cannot understand the simplest thing . 
Her former bridegroom rode over it a few days ago and heard her singing , but was no wiser than the rest . 
And he is to blame for all her misfortunes , added the magpie . 
If he heeds only the words of men she will remain a flower for ever . 
She were soon delivered were the matter only laid before the old wizard of Finland . 
After hearing this , the Prince wondered how he could get a message conveyed to Finland . 
He heard one swallow say to another Come , let us fly to Finland we can build better nests there . 
Stop , kind friends ! cried the Prince . 
The swallows flew away , and the Prince rode on to the bridge . 
There he waited , hoping to hear the song . 
But he heard nothing but the rushing of the water and the moaning of the wind , and , disappointed , rode home . 
Shortly after , he was sitting in the garden , thinking that the swallows must have forgotten his message , when he saw an eagle flying above him . 
Plunge boldly into the water , swim as close as thou canst to the water lily's roots , and loosen them from the mud and reeds . 
This done , fasten thy claws into the roots and rise with them to the surface . 
Let the water flow all over the flower , and drift with the current until thou comest to a mountain ash tree on the left bank . 
There is near it a large stone . 
Stop there and say From a crab into a man , from a water lily into a maiden , and ye both will be restored to your own forms . 
Full of doubt and fear , the Prince let some time pass before he was bold enough to attempt to rescue the maiden . 
Then a crow said to him Why dost thou hesitate ? The old wizard has not told thee wrong , neither have the birds deceived thee hasten and dry the maiden's tears . 
Nothing worse than death can befall me , thought the Prince , and death is better than endless sorrow . 
So he mounted his horse and went to the bridge . 
For one moment the water hissed in his ears , and then all was silent . 
He swam up to the plant and began to loosen its roots , but so firmly were they fixed in the mud and reeds that this took him a long time . 
He then grasped them and rose to the surface , letting the water flow over the flower . 
The current carried them down the stream , but nowhere could he see the mountain ash . 
At last he saw it , and close by the large stone . 
She was ten times more beautiful than before , and wore a magnificent pale yellow robe , sparkling with jewels . 
She thanked him for having freed her from the cruel witch's power , and willingly consented to marry him . 
While they were wondering how they should reach his father's court , they saw a splendid coach driven by six gaily caparisoned horses coming along the bank . 
In this they drove to the palace . 
The King and Queen were at church , weeping for their son , whom they had long mourned for dead . 
Great was their delight and astonishment when the Prince entered , leading the beautiful maiden by the hand . 
The wedding was at once celebrated and there was feasting and merry making throughout the kingdom for six weeks . 
The three maidens are princesses , whom she stole away when they were children together , with all the silver utensils , which she turned into gold flax . 
Poison were her fittest punishment . 
The Prince was ashamed of having forgotten his promise and set out at once , and by great good fortune reached the hut when the old woman was away . 
She DID see it , and thought it looked so tempting that she greedily ate it up and at once died . 
In the secret chamber were found fifty wagon loads of gold flax , and as much more was discovered buried . 
The hut was razed to the ground , and the Prince and his bride and her two sisters lived happily ever after . 
THE TERRIBLE HEAD ONCE upon a time there was a king whose only child was a girl . 
So the Princess would sit looking up at the sky , and watching the clouds float across , and wondering whether she should ever get out of her prison . 
Well , the daylight came at last , and the great chest was driven by the waves against the shore of an island . 
So he took them home , and was very kind to them , and brought up the boy till he was a young man . 
The boy was proud , and spoke without thinking Then I swear that I WILL bring the Terrible Head , if it may be brought by a living man . 
But of what head you speak I know not . 
Now these women were so awful to look on that whoever saw them was turned at once into stone . 
You may imagine it was no easy adventure . 
When he heard all this he was perhaps sorry that he had sworn to bring the Terrible Head , but he was determined to keep his oath . 
There he went and sat down on a rock , looking toward the sea , and wondering how he should begin to fulfill his vow . 
Then the beautiful lady also spoke , and said that it was a foolish oath and a hasty , but it might be kept if a brave man had sworn it . 
Then the boy answered that he was not afraid , if only he knew the way . 
The boy answered that he knew not where such things were to be procured , and that , wanting them , he could only try and fail . 
But there are ways which they do not know , roads beyond the borders of the world . 
And these roads have you to travel . 
So the boy thanked her , and he fastened on the Shoes of Swiftness , and turned to say good by to the young man and the lady . 
There in a blue cave of the ice he found the Three Gray Sisters , the oldest of living things . 
Now the opening of the cave in the ice was narrow , and it was not easy to pass in without touching one of the Gray Sisters . 
Then give ME the eye , for perhaps I can see farther than you . 
Then the first sister passed the eye to the second , but as the second groped for it the boy caught it cleverly out of her hand . 
Where is the eye , sister ? said the second gray woman . 
You have taken it yourself , sister , said the first gray woman . 
Then they began to implore the boy to give them their eye back again , and he could not help being sorry for them , they were so pitiful . 
But he said he would never give them the eye till they told him the way to the Fairies of the Garden . 
Then they wrung their hands miserably , for they guessed why he had come , and how he was going to try to win the Terrible Head . 
Now the Dreadful Women were akin to the Three Gray Sisters , and it was hard for them to tell the boy the way . 
Then he gave them back the eye , and they began to look out once more for the old times coming back again . 
But the boy flew south between sea and land , keeping the land always on his left hand , till he saw a beautiful island crowned with flowering trees . 
There he alighted , and there he found the Three Fairies of the Garden . 
Then they asked him why he had come and he told them how he was sent to find the Sword of Sharpness and the Cap of Darkness . 
And by the banks of that river , there he found the three Terrible Women all asleep beneath a poplar tree , and the dead poplar leaves lay all about them . 
Then he came nearer and nearer , till he reckoned that he was within a sword's stroke of the youngest , and he guessed where he should strike a back blow behind him . 
But he thrust the Terrible Head into his wallet , and flew away without looking behind . 
But as he looked down from the air he saw a very strange sight a beautiful girl chained to a stake at the high water mark of the sea . 
The girl was so frightened or so tired that she was only prevented from falling by the iron chain about her waist , and there she hung , as if she were dead . 
The boy was very sorry for her and flew down and stood beside her . 
When he spoke she raised her head and looked round , but his voice only seemed to frighten her . 
Then he remembered that he was wearing the Cap of Darkness , and that she could only hear him , not see him . 
And he thought her the most beautiful girl in the world . 
Now the lot had fallen on her and as she was just saying this a long fierce head of a cruel sea creature rose out of the waves and snapped at the girl . 
But the beast had been too greedy and too hurried , so he missed his aim the first time . 
Before he could rise and bite again the boy had whipped the Terrible Head out of his wallet and held it up . 
And when the sea beast leaped out once more its eyes fell on the head , and instantly it was turned into a stone . 
And the stone beast is there on the sea coast to this day . 
And the King and Queen made much of the boy , and could not contain themselves for delight when they found he wanted to marry their daughter . 
So the two were married with the most splendid rejoicings , and when they had passed some time at court they went home in a ship to the boy's own country . 
She did not know , of course , where the boy had gone , but thought the King had slain him secretly . 
So now she was running for her very life , and the wicked King was following her with a sword in his hand . 
And they asked the boy to be their king , but he said no , he must take his mother home to her father's house . 
So the people chose for king the man who had been kind to his mother when first she was cast on the island in the great chest . 
Presently the boy and his mother and his wife set sail for his mother's own country , from which she had been driven so unkindly . 
Thus he was destroyed by his own cowardice and by chance , and thus the prophecy was fulfilled . 
But the boy and his wife and his mother went back to the kingdom that was theirs , and lived long and happily after all their troubles . 
THE STORY OF PRETTY GOLDILOCKS ONCE upon a time there was a princess who was the prettiest creature in the world . 
And because she was so beautiful , and because her hair was like the finest gold , and waved and rippled nearly to the ground , she was called Pretty Goldilocks . 
She always wore a crown of flowers , and her dresses were embroidered with diamonds and pearls , and everybody who saw her fell in love with her . 
Now one of her neighbors was a young king who was not married . 
So he resolved to send an ambassador to ask her in marriage . 
She only answered that she was very much obliged to the King , but she had no wish to be married . 
Now there was at the Court a young man , who was more clever and handsome than anyone else . 
He was called Charming , and everyone loved him , excepting a few envious people who were angry at his being the King's favorite and knowing all the State secrets . 
He seems to think that he is so much handsomer than you that the Princess would have fallen in love with him and followed him willingly . 
The King was very angry when he heard this . 
So the King's guards went to fetch Charming , who had thought no more of his rash speech , and carried him off to prison with great cruelty . 
The poor prisoner had only a little straw for his bed , and but for a little stream of water which flowed through the tower he would have died of thirst . 
One day when he was in despair he said to himself How can I have offended the King ? I am his most faithful subject , and have done nothing against him . 
The King chanced to be passing the tower and recognized the voice of his former favorite . 
He stopped to listen in spite of Charming's enemies , who tried to persuade him to have nothing more to do with the traitor . 
But the King said Be quiet , I wish to hear what he says . 
But I cannot see what there is in that to make you angry . 
Charming replied that he was perfectly willing to go , and would set out the very next day . 
But you must wait till I can get a grand escort for you , said the King . 
It was on a Monday morning that he set out all alone upon his errand , thinking of nothing but how he could persuade the Princess Goldilocks to marry the King . 
In leaping after little flies she had thrown herself high upon the bank , where she had lain till she was nearly dead . 
You have saved my life one day I will repay you . 
So saying , she sank down into the water again , leaving Charming greatly astonished at her politeness . 
Another day , as he journeyed on , he saw a raven in great distress . 
The poor bird was closely pursued by an eagle , which would soon have eaten it up , had not Charming quickly fitted an arrow to his bow and shot the eagle dead . 
The raven perched upon a tree very joyfully . 
Charming , said he , it was very generous of you to rescue a poor raven I am not ungrateful , some day I will repay you . 
Charming thought it was very nice of the raven to say so , and went on his way . 
I was caught in a few minutes the fowlers would have been here without your help I should have been killed . 
I am grateful , and one day I will repay you . 
These three adventures were the only ones of any consequence that befell Charming upon his journey , and he made all the haste he could to reach the palace of the Princess Goldilocks . 
When he arrived he thought everything he saw delightful and magnificent . 
The guards saluted him respectfully , and a messenger was sent to the Princess to announce the arrival of Charming as ambassador of her neighbor the King . 
Charming , said the Princess , the name promises well I have no doubt that he is good looking and fascinates everybody . 
Indeed he does , madam , said all her maids of honor in one breath . 
We saw him from the window of the garret where we were spinning flax , and we could do nothing but look at him as long as he was in sight . 
Then Charming was led in , and was so struck with astonishment and admiration that at first not a word could he say . 
But presently he took courage and delivered his harangue , bravely ending by begging the Princess to spare him the disappointment of going back without her . 
So now you know what is expected of you , for if you talked for fifteen days and fifteen nights you could not make me change my mind . 
But she answered that she did not want any presents , and that he was to remember what she had just told him . 
All night Charming sighed and lamented . 
How am I to find a ring that fell into the river a month ago ? said he . 
It is useless to try the Princess must have told me to do it on purpose , knowing it was impossible . 
And then he sighed again . 
Frisk heard him and said My dear master , don't despair the luck may change , you are too good not to be happy . 
Let us go down to the river as soon as it is light . 
But Charming only gave him two little pats and said nothing , and very soon he fell asleep . 
Then he walked on and the voice called again Charming , Charming ! Who calls me ? said he . 
Frisk , who was very small and could look closely into the water , cried out I see a golden carp coming . 
And sure enough there was the great carp , who said to Charming You saved my life in the meadow by the willow tree , and I promised that I would repay you . 
Take this , it is Princess Goldilock's ring . 
Ah ! poor fellow , said she , he must have come to say good by , finding it impossible to do as I asked . 
So in came Charming , who presented her with the ring and said Madam , I have done your bidding . 
Will it please you to marry my master ? When the Princess saw her ring brought back to her unhurt she was so astonished that she thought she must be dreaming . 
Truly , Charming , said she , you must be the favorite of some fairy , or you could never have found it . 
Madam , answered he , I was helped by nothing but my desire to obey your wishes . 
Since you are so kind , said she , perhaps you will do me another service , for till it is done I will never be married . 
Nevertheless , he does not cease to persecute me and to kill my subjects . 
So before I can listen to your proposal you must kill him and bring me his head . 
Everyone he met told him what a terrible giant Galifron was , and that nobody dared go near him and the more he heard , the more frightened he grew . 
Charming praised his little dog's plan , but knew that this help would not do much good . 
At last he drew near the giant's castle , and saw to his horror that every path that led to it was strewn with bones . 
Before long he saw Galifron coming . 
Today I think I have fulfilled my promise of repaying you . 
Indeed , I owe you more gratitude than you ever owed me , replied Charming . 
And then he mounted his horse and rode off with Galifron's head . 
But very soon he arrived at the palace with the giant's head , of which she was still terrified , though it could no longer do her any harm . 
Princess , said Charming , I have killed your enemy I hope you will now consent to marry the King my master . 
Oh dear ! no , said the Princess , not until you have brought me some water from the Gloomy Cavern . 
Not far from here there is a deep cave , the entrance to which is guarded by two dragons with fiery eyes , who will not allow anyone to pass them . 
It is some of this water that I really must have everything it touches becomes wonderful . 
The beautiful things will always remain beautiful , and the ugly things become lovely . 
If one is young one never grows old , and if one is old one becomes young . 
You see , Charming , I could not leave my kingdom without taking some of it with me . 
Princess , said he , you at least can never need this water , but I am an unhappy ambassador , whose death you desire . 
Where you send me I will go , though I know I shall never return . 
And , as the Princess Goldilocks showed no sign of relenting , he started with his little dog for the Gloomy Cavern . 
Why does the Princess ask impossibilities ? Charming said nothing , but he was very sad . 
When he was near the top of a hill he dismounted to let his horse graze , while Frisk amused himself by chasing flies . 
His body was yellow and green , and his claws scarlet , and his tail was so long that it lay in a hundred coils . 
Frisk was so terrified at the sight of it that he did not know where to hide . 
Then find the King my master , and relate all my adventures to him . 
Trust me with the flask , for I know all the ways of the Gloomy Cavern , and can fill it from the Fountain of Beauty . 
Charming thanked her with all his heart , and joyfully hastened back to the town . 
He went straight to the palace and gave the flask to the Princess , who had no further objection to make . 
So she thanked Charming , and ordered that preparations should be made for her departure , and they soon set out together . 
At last they reached the King's great city , and he came out to meet the Princess , bringing magnificent presents , and the marriage was celebrated with great rejoicings . 
But Goldilocks was so fond of Charming that she could not be happy unless he was near her , and she was always singing his praises . 
Then Charming's enemies said to the King It is a wonder that you are not jealous , the Queen thinks there is nobody in the world like Charming . 
As if anybody you had sent could not have done just as much ! It is quite true , now I come to think of it , said the King . 
Let him be chained hand and foot , and thrown into the tower . 
However , little Frisk came to console him , and told him all the news . 
Now it happened that one of the Princess's ladies in chasing a spider had knocked the flask off the shelf and broken it , and every drop of the water had been spilt . 
So , without saying a word , she fetched it and stood it upon the Queen's shelf . 
Now the water in this flask was what was used in the kingdom for getting rid of troublesome people . 
Instead of having their heads cut off in the usual way , their faces were bathed with the water , and they instantly fell asleep and never woke up any more . 
So , when the King , thinking to improve his beauty , took the flask and sprinkled the water upon his face , HE fell asleep , and nobody could wake him . 
Little Frisk was the first to hear the news , and he ran to tell Charming , who sent him to beg the Princess not to forget the poor prisoner . 
Then she remembered all he had done for her , and without saying a word to anyone went straight to the tower , and with her own hands took off Charming's chains . 
Charming , once more free and happy , fell at her feet and thanked her for her gracious words . 
In his distress he asked charity of several people , and one of them bid him Go to work for an idle rogue . 
That I will , said Whittington , with all my heart I will work for you if you will let me . 
, gave him a blow with a stick which broke his head so that the blood ran down . 
At this time Mr. Fitzwarren came from the Exchange , and began also to scold at the poor boy , bidding him to go to work . 
Besides the crossness of the cook , Whittington had another difficulty to get over before he could be happy . 
After some time , however , a gentleman who came to his master's house gave Whittington a penny for brushing his shoes . 
She then offered to lay down something for him , but the merchant told his daughter that would not do , it must be something of his own . 
Upon which poor Whittington said he had nothing but a cat which he bought for a penny that was given him . 
Fetch thy cat , boy , said the merchant , and send her . 
All the company laughed at the adventure but Miss Alice , who pitied the poor boy , and gave him something to buy another cat . 
We must now follow Miss Puss to the coast of Africa . 
The factor , in surprise , turned round to the nobles and asked if these vermin were not offensive . 
The factor jumped for joy he remembered poor Whittington and his cat , and told the King he had a creature on board the ship that would despatch all these vermin immediately . 
The King's heart heaved so high at the joy which this news gave him that his turban dropped off his head . 
The factor , who knew his business , took this opportunity to set forth the merits of Miss Puss . 
Run , run , said the Queen I am impatient to see the dear creature . 
Away flew the factor , while another dinner was providing , and returned with the cat just as the rats and mice were devouring that also . 
He immediately put down Miss Puss , who killed a great number of them . 
Upon which the factor called Pussy , pussy , pussy ! and she came to him . 
He then put her down on the Queen's lap , where she , purring , played with her Majesty's hand , and then sang herself to sleep . 
On which , taking leave of their Majesties and other great personages at court , they sailed with a fair wind for England , whither we must now attend them . 
The morn had scarcely dawned when Mr. Fitzwarren arose to count over the cash and settle the business for that day . 
He had just entered the counting house , and seated himself at the desk , when somebody came , tap , tap , at the door . 
Who's there ? said Mr. Fitzwarren . 
A friend , answered the other . 
What friend can come at this unseasonable time ? A real friend is never unseasonable , answered the other . 
I come to bring you good news of your ship Unicorn . 
Then they told him the adventures of the cat , and showed him the cabinet of jewels which they had brought for Mr. Whittington . 
It is not our business to animadvert upon these lines we are not critics , but historians . 
The merchant , however , made him come in , and ordered a chair to be set for him . 
The merchant , taking him by the hand , said Indeed , Mr. Whittington , I am in earnest with you , and sent for you to congratulate you on your great success . 
He then gratified the captain , factor , and the ship's crew for the care they had taken of his cargo . 
He likewise distributed presents to all the servants in the house , not forgetting even his old enemy the cook , though she little deserved it . 
History further relates that they lived very happy , had several children , and died at a good old age . 
Mr. Whittington served as Sheriff of London and was three times Lord Mayor . 
His Majesty , out of respect to his good character , conferred the honor of knighthood on him soon after . 
He also built Newgate for criminals , and gave liberally to St . 
Bartholomew's Hospital and other public charities . 
The eldest wore emeralds , the second turquoises , and the youngest diamonds , and thus adorned they went to meet the King , singing verses which they had composed about his victories . 
When he saw them all so beautiful and so gay he embraced them tenderly , but gave Miranda more kisses than either of the others . 
Sire , she answered , having heard of your victories I thought that green would signify my joy and the hope of your speedy return . 
Why , said the King , your wise answers astonish me , and you , Miranda . 
What made you dress yourself all in white ? Because , sire , she answered , white suits me better than anything else . 
What ! said the King angrily , was that all you thought of , vain child ? I thought you would be pleased with me , said the Princess that was all . 
The King , who loved her , was satisfied with this , and even pretended to be pleased that she had not told him all her reasons at first . 
And now , said he , as I have supped well , and it is not time yet to go to bed , tell me what you dreamed last night . 
The eldest said she had dreamed that he brought her a dress , and the precious stones and gold embroidery on it were brighter than the sun . 
The dream of the second was that the King had brought her a spinning wheel and a distaff , that she might spin him some shirts . 
Does the proud girl wish to make me her slave ? he said to himself . 
I am not surprised at her choosing to dress herself in white satin without a thought of me . 
The monkey was called Grabugeon , and the little dog Tintin . 
By this time the daylight had begun to appear , and the Princess , looking at her conductor , saw that he had tears in his eyes and seemed too sad to speak . 
What is the matter ? she said in the kindest way . 
The poor Princess was terrified , she grew very pale and began to cry softly . 
Fear nothing , Princess , said the Captain of the Guard . 
What can we do ? said Miranda unless you take him my heart and my tongue he will never believe you . 
No , no , my little Grabugeon , replied Miranda , I cannot bear the thought of taking your life . 
Such a good little dog as I am , cried Tintin , acould not think of letting either of you die for his mistress . 
If anyone is to die for her it must be me . 
But when the Captain of the Guard would have taken her tongue it turned out to be quite black , so that would not have deceived the King either . 
Am I not unlucky ? cried the poor Princess I lose everything I love , and am none the better for it . 
If you had accepted my offer , said Tintin , you would only have had me to regret , and I should have had all your gratitude . 
Miranda kissed her little dog , crying so bitterly , that at last she could bear it no longer , and turned away into the forest . 
When she looked back the Captain of the Guard was gone , and she was alone , except for Patypata , Grabugeon , and Tintin , who lay upon the ground . 
Alas ! it is not always kings and princes who are the happiest people in the world . 
Many of them wore golden collars with jewels , flowers , and ribbons . 
Miranda stopped short in amazement at this unexpected sight , and was looking in all directions for the shepherd of this surprising flock , when the beautiful sheep came bounding toward her . 
Approach , lovely Princess , he cried have no fear of such gentle and peaceable animals as we are . 
What a marvel ! cried the Princess , starting back a little . 
Here is a sheep that can talk . 
Your monkey and your dog could talk , madam , said he are you more astonished at us than at them ? A fairy gave them the power to speak , replied Miranda . 
So I was used to them . 
Perhaps the same thing has happened to us , he said , smiling sheepishly . 
But , Princess , what can have led you here ? A thousand misfortunes , Sir Sheep , she answered . 
I am the unhappiest princess in the world , and I am seeking a shelter against my father's anger . 
Come with me , madam , said the Sheep I offer you a hiding place which you only will know of , and where you will be mistress of everything you see . 
I really cannot follow you , said Miranda , for I am too tired to walk another step . 
This the King touched with his foot , and immediately it fell down , and he invited the Princess to enter without fear . 
Oh ! she cried , what can they be ? Whom am I with ? and she began to cry . 
At this instant the King of the Sheep came back to her , and was so distracted to find her in tears that he could have torn his wool . 
What is the matter , lovely Princess ? he cried . 
It was very kind of you to bring me to this place , but I shall be even more grateful to you if you will take me up into the world again . 
Do not be afraid , said the Wonderful Sheep I entreat you to have patience , and listen to the story of my misfortunes . 
I was once a king , and my kingdom was the most splendid in the world . 
My subjects loved me , my neighbors envied and feared me . 
I was respected by everyone , and it was said that no king ever deserved it more . 
She was leaning upon the arm of a most beautiful young girl , who wore chains of gold on her wrists and was evidently her slave . 
If I chose I could make any one of my scullions richer and more powerful than you . 
As she spoke she advanced , and led me to this plain where we now stand , and showed me her flock , but I paid little attention to it or to her . 
It seems that you are a lion at present , I mean you to be a sheep . 
So saying , she touched me with her wand , and I became what you see . 
I did not lose the power of speech , or of feeling the misery of my present state . 
She disappeared as she finished speaking , and if I had not been too unhappy to care about anything I should have been glad that she was gone . 
The young slave of whom I told you about is one of these I have seen her often , and it has been a great pleasure to me . 
She never speaks to me , and if I were nearer to her I know I should find her only a shadow , which would be very annoying . 
Go , said he to his Master of the Horse , go and seek the shadows of the little black girl , the monkey , and the dog they will amuse our Princess . 
And an instant afterward Miranda saw them coming toward her , and their presence gave her the greatest pleasure , though they did not come near enough for her to touch them . 
The King of the Sheep was so kind and amusing , and loved Miranda so dearly , that at last she began to love him too . 
So the Princess's days passed very gaily while she waited for the happy time to come . 
Miranda was very grateful to him , and promised faithfully that nothing in the world should keep her from coming back . 
The King caused an escort suitable to her rank to be got ready for her , and she dressed herself splendidly , not forgetting anything that could make her more beautiful . 
However , the fear of not getting away made her leave before the marriage was over . 
She went out hastily , leaving behind her a little coral casket set with emeralds . 
Short as Miranda's absence had been , it had seemed like a hundred years to the King of the Sheep . 
As soon as she was in sight he rushed to meet her , leaping and bounding like a real sheep . 
After some time came the news that the King's second daughter was going to be married . 
When Miranda heard it she begged the King of the Sheep to allow her to go and see the wedding as before . 
You wish to leave me , Princess , said he it is my unhappy fate you are not to blame . 
I consent to your going , but , believe me , I can give you no stronger proof of my love than by so doing . 
So , with the same escort , she set out , and reached the palace as the marriage ceremony began . 
Everybody was delighted to see her she was so pretty that they thought she must be some fairy princess , and the Princes who were there could not take their eyes off her . 
The King was more glad than anyone else that she had come again , and gave orders that the doors should all be shut and bolted that very minute . 
The King recognized her at once indeed , he had already thought several times how much like his poor little Miranda she was . 
And so it did , he added , for now your sisters are both married and have kingdoms of their own and mine shall be for you . 
This she did with so much spirit that all the guests listened with breathless interest . 
She is not coming back any more , he cried . 
My miserable sheep's face displeases her , and without Miranda what is left to me , wretched creature that I am ! Oh ! cruel Ragotte my punishment is complete . 
LITTLE THUMB THERE was , once upon a time , a man and his wife fagot makers by trade , who had several children , all boys . 
The eldest was but ten years old , and the youngest only seven . 
They were very poor , and their seven children incommoded them greatly , because not one of them was able to earn his bread . 
He was very little , and when born no bigger than one's thumb , which made him be called Little Thumb . 
There happened now to come a very bad year , and the famine was so great that these poor people resolved to rid themselves of their children . 
However , having considered what a grief it would be to her to see them perish with hunger , she at last consented , and went to bed all in tears . 
He went to bed again , but did not sleep a wink all the rest of the night , thinking on what he had to do . 
He got up early in the morning , and went to the river side , where he filled his pockets full of small white pebbles , and then returned home . 
They all went abroad , but Little Thumb never told his brothers one syllable of what he knew . 
They went into a very thick forest , where they could not another at ten paces distance . 
The fagot maker began to cut wood , and the children to gather up the sticks to make fagots . 
When the children saw they were left alone , they began to cry as loud as they could . 
Then he said to them Be not afraid , brothers father and mother have left us here , but I will lead you home again , only follow me . 
They did so , and he brought them home by the very same way they came into the forest . 
They dared not go in , but sat themselves down at the door , listening to what their father and mother were saying . 
This gave them new life , for the poor people were almost famished . 
The fagot maker sent his wife immediately to the butcher's . 
As it was a long while since they had eaten a bit , she bought thrice as much meat as would sup two people . 
What are they now doing in the forest ? Alas ! dear God , the wolves have perhaps already eaten them up thou art very inhuman thus to have lost thy children . 
He threatened to beat her if she did not hold her tongue . 
Now , you must know that Peter was her eldest son , whom she loved above all the rest , because he was somewhat carroty , as she herself was . 
Their father and mother brought them into the thickest and most obscure part of the forest , when , stealing away into a by path , they there left them . 
They were now in great affliction , for the farther they went the more they were out of their way , and were more and more bewildered in the forest . 
Night now came on , and there arose a terribly high wind , which made them dreadfully afraid . 
They fancied they heard on every side of them the howling of wolves coming to eat them up . 
They scarce dared to speak or turn their heads . 
He came down , and , when upon the ground , he could see it no more , which grieved him sadly . 
However , having walked for some time with his brothers toward that side on which he had seen the light , he perceived it again as he came out of the wood . 
They knocked at the door , and a good woman came and opened it she asked them what they would have . 
Little Thumb told her they were poor children who had been lost in the forest , and desired to lodge there for God's sake . 
As they began to be a little warm they heard three or four great raps at the door this was the Ogre , who had come home . 
Upon this she hid them under the bed and went to open the door . 
The Ogre presently asked if supper was ready and the wine drawn , and then sat himself down to table . 
The sheep was as yet all raw and bloody but he liked it the better for that . 
He sniffed about to the right and left , saying I smell fresh meat . 
What you smell so , said his wife , must be the calf which I have just now killed and flayed . 
I smell fresh meat , I tell thee once more , replied the Ogre , looking crossly at his wife and there is something here which I do not understand . 
As he spoke these words he got up from the table and went directly to the bed . 
Here is good game , which comes very quickly to entertain three ogres of my acquaintance who are to pay me a visit in a day or two . 
With that he dragged them out from under the bed one by one . 
He then took a great knife , and , coming up to these poor children , whetted it upon a great whet stone which he held in his left hand . 
But you have so much meat already , replied his wife , you have no occasion here are a calf , two sheep , and half a hog . 
That is true , said the Ogre give them their belly full that they may not fall away , and put them to bed . 
The good woman was overjoyed at this , and gave them a good supper but they were so much afraid they could not eat a bit . 
As for the Ogre , he sat down again to drink , being highly pleased that he had got wherewithal to treat his friends . 
He drank a dozen glasses more than ordinary , which got up into his head and obliged him to go to bed . 
They were not as yet over and above mischievous , but they promised very fair for it , for they had already bitten little children , that they might suck their blood . 
They had been put to bed early , with every one a crown of gold upon her head . 
And saying these words , without more ado , he cut the throats of all his seven daughters . 
Well pleased with what he had done , he went to bed again to his wife . 
So soon as Little Thumb heard the Ogre snore , he waked his brothers , and bade them all put on their clothes presently and follow him . 
They stole down softly into the garden , and got over the wall . 
They kept running about all night , and trembled all the while , without knowing which way they went . 
The Ogre , when he awoke , said to his wife Go upstairs and dress those young rascals who came here last night . 
She fainted away , for this is the first expedient almost all women find in such cases . 
The Ogre , fearing his wife would be too long in doing what he had ordered , went up himself to help her . 
He was no less amazed than his wife at this frightful spectacle . 
Ah ! what have I done ? cried he . 
The wretches shall pay for it , and that instantly . 
They espied the Ogre , who went at one step from mountain to mountain , and over rivers as easily as the narrowest kennels . 
, had a great mind to rest himself , and , by chance , went to sit down upon the rock where the little boys had hid themselves . 
They took his advice , and got home presently . 
Little Thumb came up to the Ogre , pulled off his boots gently and put them on his own legs . 
He went immediately to the Ogre's house , where he saw his wife crying bitterly for the loss of the Ogre's murdered daughters . 
of his boots , that I might make the more haste and to show you that I do not impose upon you . 
The good woman , being sadly frightened , gave him all she had for this Ogre was a very good husband , though he used to eat up little children . 
Little Thumb , having thus got all the Ogre's money , came home to his father's house , where he was received with abundance of joy . 
These folks affirm that they are very well assured of this , and the more as having drunk and eaten often at the fagot maker's house . 
He went , say they , to the King , and told him that , if he desired it , he would bring him news from the army before night . 
The King promised him a great sum of money upon that condition . 
THE FORTY THIEVES IN a town in Persia there dwelt two brothers , one named Cassim , the other Ali Baba . 
One day , when Ali Baba was in the forest , he saw a troop of men on horseback , coming toward him in a cloud of dust . 
He was afraid they were robbers , and climbed into a tree for safety . 
When they came up to him and dismounted , he counted forty of them . 
They unbridled their horses and tied them to trees . 
A door opened in the rocks , and having made the troop go in , he followed them , and the door shut again of itself . 
They stayed some time inside , and Ali Baba , fearing they might come out and catch him , was forced to sit patiently in the tree . 
At last the door opened again , and the Forty Thieves came out . 
Sesame is a kind of grain . 
Then Ali Baba climbed down and went to the door concealed among the bushes , and said Open , Sesame ! and it flew open . 
He saw rich bales of merchandise silk , stuff brocades , all piled together , and gold and silver in heaps , and money in leather purses . 
He went in and the door shut behind him . 
Using the words Shut , Sesame ! he closed the door and went home . 
Then he drove his asses into the yard , shut the gates , carried the money bags to his wife , and emptied them out before her . 
He bade her keep the secret , and he would go and bury the gold . 
Let me first measure it , said his wife . 
I will go borrow a measure of someone , while you dig the hole . 
So she ran to the wife of Cassim and borrowed a measure . 
Knowing Ali Baba's poverty , the sister was curious to find out what sort of grain his wife wished to measure , and artfully put some suet at the bottom of the measure . 
Ali Baba's wife went home and set the measure on the heap of gold , and filled it and emptied it often , to her great content . 
She then carried it back to her sister , without noticing that a piece of gold was sticking to it , which Cassim's wife perceived directly her back was turned . 
She grew very curious , and said to Cassim when he came home Cassim , your brother is richer than you . 
He does not count his money , he measures it . 
He begged her to explain this riddle , which she did by showing him the piece of money and telling him where she found it . 
Then Cassim grew so envious that he could not sleep , and went to his brother in the morning before sunrise . 
Ali Baba , he said , showing him the gold piece , you pretend to be poor and yet you measure gold . 
By this Ali Baba perceived that through his wife's folly Cassim and his wife knew their secret , so he confessed all and offered Cassim a share . 
That I expect , said Cassim but I must know where to find the treasure , otherwise I will discover all , and you will lose all . 
Ali Baba , more out of kindness than fear , told him of the cave , and the very words to use . 
Cassim left Ali Baba , meaning to be beforehand with him and get the treasure for himself . 
He rose early next morning , and set out with ten mules loaded with great chests . 
He soon found the place , and the door in the rock . 
He said Open , Sesame ! and the door opened and shut behind him . 
Instead of Sesame , he said Open , Barley ! and the door remained fast . 
He named several different sorts of grain , all but the right one , and the door still stuck fast . 
He was so frightened at the danger he was in that he had as much forgotten the word as if he had never heard it . 
About noon the robbers returned to their cave , and saw Cassim's mules roving about with great chests on their backs . 
In vain , however , for the robbers with their sabres soon killed him . 
On entering the cave they saw all the bags laid ready , and could not imagine how anyone had got in without knowing their secret . 
As night drew on Cassim's wife grew very uneasy , and ran to her brother in law , and told him where her husband had gone . 
Ali Baba did his best to comfort her , and set out to the forest in search of Cassim . 
The first thing he saw on entering the cave was his dead brother . 
Full of horror , he put the body on one of his asses , and bags of gold on the other two , and , covering all with some fagots , returned home . 
He drove the two asses laden with gold into his own yard , and led the other to Cassim's house . 
The door was opened by the slave Morgiana , whom he knew to be both brave and cunning . 
I will speak with you again , but now tell your mistress I am come . 
Morgiana , meanwhile , sought an apothecary and asked him for some lozenges . 
My poor master , she said , can neither eat nor speak , and no one knows what his distemper is . 
She carried home the lozenges and returned next day weeping , and asked for an essence only given to those just about to die . 
Thus , in the evening , no one was surprised to hear the wretched shrieks and cries of Cassim's wife and Morgiana , telling everyone that Cassim was dead . 
Then they buried Cassim , and Morgiana his slave followed him to the grave , weeping and tearing her hair , while Cassim's wife stayed at home uttering lamentable cries . 
Next day she went to live with Ali Baba , who gave Cassim's shop to his eldest son . 
The Forty Thieves , on their return to the cave , were much astonished to find Cassim's body gone and some of their money bags . 
We are certainly discovered , said the Captain , and shall be undone if we cannot find out who it is that knows our secret . 
Two men must have known it we have killed one , we must now find the other . 
If the messenger fails he must lose his life , lest we be betrayed . 
The robber was overjoyed at his good fortune , and , giving him a piece of gold , desired to be shown the house where he stitched up the dead body . 
Then , well pleased , he bade farewell to Baba Mustapha and returned to the forest . 
The thief , meantime , told his comrades of his discovery . 
The Captain thanked him , and bade him show him the house he had marked . 
But when they came to it they saw that five or six of the houses were chalked in the same manner . 
The guide was so confounded that he knew not what answer to make , and when they returned he was at once beheaded for having failed . 
The Captain put one of his men , fully armed , into each , rubbing the outside of the jars with oil from the full vessel . 
Then the nineteen mules were loaded with thirty seven robbers in jars , and the jar of oil , and reached the town by dusk . 
Though Ali Baba had seen the Captain of the robbers in the forest , he did not recognize him in the disguise of an oil merchant . 
He bade him welcome , opened his gates for the mules to enter , and went to Morgiana to bid her prepare a bed and supper for his guest . 
He returned to the house , and Morgiana led him to his chamber . 
She then told Abdallah , her fellow slave , to set on the pot to make some broth for her master , who had gone to bed . 
Meanwhile her lamp went out , and she had no more oil in the house . 
Do not be uneasy , said Abdallah go into the yard and take some out of one of those jars . 
Morgiana thanked him for his advice , took the oil pot , and went into the yard . 
She went to all the jars , giving the same answer , till she came to the jar of oil . 
She now saw that her master , thinking to entertain an oil merchant , had let thirty eight robbers into his house . 
She filled her oil pot , went back to the kitchen , and , having lit her lamp , went again to the oil jar and filled a large kettle full of oil . 
When it boiled she went and poured enough oil into every jar to stifle and kill the robber inside . 
When this brave deed was done she went back to the kitchen , put out the fire and the lamp , and waited to see what would happen . 
In a quarter of an hour the Captain of the robbers awoke , got up , and opened the window . 
As all seemed quiet , he threw down some little pebbles which hit the jars . 
He listened , and as none of his men seemed to stir he grew uneasy , and went down into the yard . 
He found all the gang was dead , and , missing the oil out of the last jar , became aware of the manner of their death . 
He then forced the lock of a door leading into a garden , and climbing over several walls made his escape . 
Morgiana heard and saw all this , and , rejoicing at her success , went to bed and fell asleep . 
At daybreak Ali Baba arose , and , seeing the oil jars still there , asked why the merchant had not gone with his mules . 
Morgiana bade him look in the first jar and see if there was any oil . 
Seeing a man , he started back in terror . 
Have no fear , said Morgiana the man cannot harm you he is dead . 
Ali Baba , when he had recovered somewhat from his astonishment , asked what had become of the merchant . 
Ali Baba at once gave Morgiana her freedom , saying that he owed her his life . 
They then buried the bodies in Ali Baba's garden , while the mules were sold in the market by his slaves . 
The Captain returned to his lonely cave , which seemed frightful to him without his lost companions , and firmly resolved to avenge them by killing Ali Baba . 
He dressed himself carefully , and went into the town , where he took lodgings in an inn . 
In the course of a great many journeys to the forest he carried away many rich stuffs and much fine linen , and set up a shop opposite that of Ali Baba's son . 
Ali Baba , wishing to return his kindness , invited him into his house and received him smiling , thanking him for his kindness to his son . 
If that is all , said Ali Baba , let me tell you that there shall be no salt in either the meat or the bread that we eat to night . 
He went to give this order to Morgiana , who was much surprised . 
Who is this man , she said , who eats no salt with his meat ? He is an honest man , Morgiana , returned her master therefore do as I bid you . 
She sent up the supper by Abdallah , while she made ready for one of the boldest acts that could be thought on . 
When the dessert had been served , Cogia Hassan was left alone with Ali Baba and his son , whom he thought to make drunk and then to murder them . 
Abdallah took his tabor and played before Morgiana until they came to the door , where Abdallah stopped playing and Morgiana made a low courtesy . 
Come in , Morgiana , said Ali Baba , and let Cogia Hassan see what you can do and , turning to Cogia Hassan , he said She's my slave and my housekeeper . 
Unhappy girl ! cried Ali Baba and his son , what have you done to ruin us ? It was to preserve you , master , not to ruin you , answered Morgiana . 
At the end of a year Ali Baba , hearing nothing of the two remaining robbers , judged they were dead , and set out to the cave . 
The door opened on his saying Open Sesame ! He went in , and saw that nobody had been there since the Captain left it . 
He brought away as much gold as he could carry , and returned to town . 
He had always little enough to live on , and once , when there was a great famine in the land , he couldn't even provide them with daily bread . 
They won't be able to find their way home , and we shall thus be rid of them . 
But I can't help feeling sorry for the poor children , added the husband . 
The children , too , had not been able to sleep for hunger , and had heard what their step mother had said to their father . 
Grettel wept bitterly and spoke to Hansel Now it's all up with us . 
No , no , Grettel , said Hansel , don't fret yourself I'll be able to find a way to escape , no fear . 
And when the old people had fallen asleep he got up , slipped on his little coat , opened the back door and stole out . 
The moon was shining clearly , and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like bits of silver . 
Hansel bent down and filled his pocket with as many of them as he could cram in . 
Then he went back and said to Grettel Be comforted , my dear little sister , and go to sleep God will not desert us and he lay down in bed again . 
She gave them each a bit of bread and said There's something for your luncheon , but don't you eat it up before , for it's all you'll get . 
Grettel took the bread under her apron , as Hansel had the stones in his pocket . 
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest . 
After they had walked for a little , Hansel stood still and looked back at the house , and this maneuver he repeated again and again . 
His father observed him , and said Hansel , what are you gazing at there , and why do you always remain behind ? Take care , and don't lose your footing . 
Oh ! father , said Hansel , I am looking back at my white kitten , which is sitting on the roof , waving me a farewell . 
The woman exclaimed What a donkey you are ! that isn't your kitten , that's the morning sun shining on the chimney . 
But Hansel had not looked back at his kitten , but had always dropped one of the white pebbles out of his pocket on to the path . 
Hansel and Grettel heaped up brushwood till they had made a pile nearly the size of a small hill . 
Hansel and Grettel sat down beside the fire , and at midday ate their little bits of bread . 
They heard the strokes of the axe , so they thought their father was quite near . 
But it was no axe they heard , but a bough he had tied on a dead tree , and that was blown about by the wind . 
And when they had sat for a long time their eyes closed with fatigue , and they fell fast asleep . 
When they awoke at last it was pitch dark . 
Grettel began to cry , and said How are we ever to get out of the wood ? But Hansel comforted her . 
Wait a bit , he said , till the moon is up , and then we'll find our way sure enough . 
And when the full moon had risen he took his sister by the hand and followed the pebbles , which shone like new threepenny bits , and showed them the path . 
They walked on through the night , and at daybreak reached their father's house again . 
But the father rejoiced , for his conscience had reproached him for leaving his children behind by themselves . 
The children must be got rid of we'll lead them deeper into the wood this time , so that they won't be able to find their way out again . 
There is no other way of saving ourselves . 
If a man yields once he's done for , and so , because he had given in the first time , he was forced to do so the second . 
But the children were awake , and had heard the conversation . 
But he consoled his little sister , and said Don't cry , Grettel , and sleep peacefully , for God is sure to help us . 
At early dawn the woman came and made the children get up . 
They received their bit of bread , but it was even smaller than the time before . 
On the way to the wood Hansel crumbled it in his pocket , and every few minutes he stood still and dropped a crumb on the ground . 
Hansel , what are you stopping and looking about you for ? said the father . 
I'm looking back at my little pigeon , which is sitting on the roof waving me a farewell , answered Hansel . 
Fool ! said the wife that isn't your pigeon , it's the morning sun glittering on the chimney . 
But Hansel gradually threw all his crumbs on the path . 
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest farther than they had ever been in their lives before . 
At midday Grettel divided her bread with Hansel , for he had strewn his all along their path . 
Then they fell asleep , and evening passed away , but nobody came to the poor children . 
When the moon appeared they got up , but they found no crumbs , for the thousands of birds that fly about the woods and fields had picked them all up . 
Never mind , said Hansel to Gret tel you'll see we'll find a way out but all the same they did not . 
They wandered about the whole night , and the next day , from morning till evening , but they could not find a path out of the wood . 
They were very hungry , too , for they had nothing to eat but a few berries they found growing on the ground . 
And at last they were so tired that their legs refused to carry them any longer , so they lay down under a tree and fell fast asleep . 
At midday they saw a beautiful little snow white bird sitting on a branch , which sang so sweetly that they stopped still and listened to it . 
And when its song was finished it flapped its wings and flew on in front of them . 
Now we'll set to , said Hansel , and have a regular blow out . 
I'll eat a bit of the roof , and you , Grettel , can eat some of the window , which you'll find a sweet morsel . 
Hansel stretched up his hand and broke off a little bit of the roof to see what it was like , and Grettel went to the casement and began to nibble at it . 
Suddenly the door opened , and an ancient dame leaning on a staff hobbled out . 
Hansel and Grettel were so terrified that they let what they had in their hands fall . 
She took them both by the hand and let them into the house , and laid a most sumptuous dinner before them milk and sugared pancakes , with apples and nuts . 
After they had finished , two beautiful little white beds were prepared for them , and when Hansel and Grettel lay down in them they felt as if they had got into heaven . 
When anyone came into her power she killed , cooked , and ate him , and held a regular feast day for the occasion . 
Now witches have red eyes , and cannot see far , but , like beasts , they have a keen sense of smell , and know when human beings pass by . 
When Hansel and Grettel fell into her hands she laughed maliciously , and said jeeringly I've got them now they sha'n't escape me . 
Then she went to Grettel , shook her till she awoke , and cried Get up , you lazy bones , fetch water and cook something for your brother . 
When he's fat I'll eat him up . 
Grettel began to cry bitterly , but it was of no use she had to do what the wicked witch bade her . 
So the best food was cooked for poor Hansel , but Grettel got nothing but crab shells . 
Every morning the old woman hobbled out to the stable and cried Hansel , put out your finger , that I may feel if you are getting fat . 
When four weeks had passed and Hansel still remained thin , she lost patience and determined to wait no longer . 
Hi , Grettel , she called to the girl , abe quick and get some water . 
Hansel may be fat or thin , I'm going to kill him to morrow and cook him . 
Just hold your peace , said the old hag it won't help you . 
Early in the morning Grettel had to go out and hang up the kettle full of water , and light the fire . 
First we'll bake , said the old dame I've heated the oven already and kneaded the dough . 
She pushed Grettel out to the oven , from which fiery flames were already issuing . 
Creep in , said the witch , and see if it's properly heated , so that we can shove in the bread . 
For when she had got Grettel in she meant to close the oven and let the girl bake , that she might eat her up too . 
Then Grettel gave her a shove that sent her right in , shut the iron door , and drew the bolt . 
Gracious ! how she yelled , it was quite horrible but Grettel fled , and the wretched old woman was left to perish miserably . 
Grettel flew straight to Hansel , opened the little stable door , and cried Hansel , we are free the old witch is dead . 
Then Hansel sprang like a bird out of a cage when the door is opened . 
These are even better than pebbles , said Hansel , and crammed his pockets full of them and Grettel said I too will bring something home , and she filled her apron full . 
But now , said Hansel , let's go and get well away from the witch's wood . 
When they had wandered about for some hours they came to a big lake . 
We can't get over , said Hansel I see no bridge of any sort or kind . 
No , answered Grettel , we should be too heavy a load for the duck she shall carry us across separately . 
Then they set off to run , and bounding into the room fell on their father's neck . 
The man had not passed a happy hour since he left them in the wood , but the woman had died . 
Grettel shook out her apron so that the pearls and precious stones rolled about the room , and Hansel threw down one handful after the other out of his pocket . 
Thus all their troubles were ended , and they lived happily ever afterward . 
See ! there runs a little mouse anyone who catches it may make himself a large fur cap out of it . 
The figure got up , looked at them kindly , but said nothing , and vanished into the wood . 
And when they told their mother of their adventure , she said what they had seen must have been the angel that guards good children . 
Snow white and Rose red kept their mother's cottage so beautifully clean and neat that it was a pleasure to go into it . 
In summer Rose red looked after the house , and every morning before her mother awoke she placed a bunch of flowers before the bed , from each tree a rose . 
In winter Snow white lit the fire and put on the kettle , which was made of brass , but so beautifully polished that it shone like gold . 
Beside them on the ground lay a little lamb , and behind them perched a little white dove with its head tucked under its wings . 
One evening as they sat thus cosily together someone knocked at the door as though he desired admittance . 
The mother said Rose red , open the door quickly it must be some traveler seeking shelter . 
Rose red screamed aloud and sprang back in terror , the lamb began to bleat , the dove flapped its wings , and Snow white ran and hid behind her mother's bed . 
But the bear began to speak , and said Don't be afraid I won't hurt you . 
I am half frozen , and only wish to warm myself a little . 
My poor bear , said the mother , lie down by the fire , only take care you don't burn your fur . 
Then she called out Snow white and Rose red , come out the bear will do you no harm he is a good , honest creature . 
So they both came out of their hiding places , and gradually the lamb and dove drew near too , and they all forgot their fear . 
The bear asked the children to beat the snow a little out of his fur , and they fetched a brush and scrubbed him till he was dry . 
Then the beast stretched himself in front of the fire , and growled quite happily and comfortably . 
The children soon grew quite at their ease with him , and led their helpless guest a fearful life . 
As soon as day dawned the children led him out , and he trotted over the snow into the wood . 
When spring came , and all outside was green , the bear said one morning to Snow white Now I must go away , and not return again the whole summer . 
Where are you going to , dear bear ? asked Snow white . 
I must go to the wood and protect my treasure from the wicked dwarfs . 
A short time after this the mother sent the children into the wood to collect fagots . 
When they approached nearer they perceived a dwarf with a wizened face and a beard a yard long . 
I will run and fetch somebody , said Rose red . 
Crazy blockheads ! snapped the dwarf what's the good of calling anyone else ? You're already two too many for me . 
Shortly after this Snow white and Rose red went out to get a dish of fish . 
As they approached the stream they saw something which looked like an enormous grasshopper springing toward the water as if it were going to jump in . 
They ran forward and recognized their old friend the dwarf . 
Where are you going to ? asked Rose red you're surely not going to jump into the water ? I'm not such a fool , screamed the dwarf . 
Nothing remained but to produce the scissors and cut the beard , by which a small part of it was sacrificed . 
I can't appear like this before my own people . 
I wish you'd been in Jericho first . 
Then he fetched a sack of pearls that lay among the rushes , and without saying another word he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone . 
It happened that soon after this the mother sent the two girls to the town to buy needles , thread , laces , and ribbons . 
Their road led over a heath where huge boulders of rock lay scattered here and there . 
Immediately afterward they heard a sharp , piercing cry . 
They ran forward , and saw with horror that the eagle had pounced on their old friend the dwarf , and was about to carry him off . 
The tender hearted children seized hold of the little man , and struggled so long with the bird that at last he let go his prey . 
The girls were accustomed to his ingratitude , and went on their way and did their business in town . 
The evening sun shone on the glittering stones , and they glanced and gleamed so beautifully that the children stood still and gazed on them . 
What are you standing there gaping for ? screamed the dwarf , and his ashen gray face became scarlet with rage . 
He was about to go off with these angry words when a sudden growl was heard , and a black bear trotted out of the wood . 
The dwarf jumped up in great fright , but he hadn't time to reach his place of retreat , for the bear was already close to him . 
Then he cried in terror Dear Mr. Bear , spare me ! I'll give you all my treasure . 
Look at those beautiful precious stones lying there . 
Spare my life ! what pleasure would you get from a poor feeble little fellow like me ? You won't feel me between your teeth . 
There , lay hold of these two wicked girls , they will be a tender morsel for you , as fat as young quails eat them up , for heaven's sake . 
But the bear , paying no attention to his words , gave the evil little creature one blow with his paw , and he never moved again . 
The girls had run away , but the bear called after them Snow white and Rose red , don't be afraid wait , and I'll come with you . 
Now he has got his well merited punishment . 
Snow white married him , and Rose red his brother , and they divided the great treasure the dwarf had collected in his cave between them . 
THE GOOSE GIRL ONCE upon a time an old queen , whose husband had been dead for many years , had a beautiful daughter . 
When she grew up she was betrothed to a prince who lived a great way off . 
Now the Princess's horse was called Falada , and could speak . 
If you're thirsty , said the maid , dismount yourself , and lie down by the water and drink I don't mean to be your servant any longer . 
The Princess was so thirsty that she got down , bent over the stream , and drank , for she wasn't allowed to drink out of the golden goblet . 
But the Princess was meek , and said nothing about her maid's rude behavior , and quietly mounted her horse again . 
But the waiting maid replied , more haughtily even than before If you want a drink , you can dismount and get it I don't mean to be your servant . 
But Falada observed everything , and laid it all to heart . 
The waiting maid now mounted Falada , and the real bride the worse horse , and so they continued their journey till at length they arrived at the palace yard . 
In the meantime the real Princess was left standing below in the courtyard . 
The old King , who was looking out of his window , beheld her in this plight , and it struck him how sweet and gentle , even beautiful , she looked . 
He went at once to the royal chamber , and asked the bride who it was she had brought with her and had left thus standing in the court below . 
Oh ! replied the bride , I brought her with me to keep me company on the journey give the girl something to do , that she may not be idle . 
But the old King had no work for her , and couldn't think of anything so he said , I've a small boy who looks after the geese , she'd better help him . 
The youth's name was Curdken , and the real bride was made to assist him in herding geese . 
Soon after this the false bride said to the Prince Dearest husband , I pray you grant me a favor . 
He answered That I will . 
Then let the slaughterer cut off the head of the horse I rode here upon , because it behaved very badly on the journey . 
But the truth was she was afraid lest the horse should speak and tell how she had treated the Princess . 
She carried her point , and the faithful Falada was doomed to die . 
When the news came to the ears of the real Princess she went to the slaughterer , and secretly promised him a piece of gold if he would do something for her . 
Then she left the tower and drove the geese into a field . 
And when they had reached the common where the geese fed she sat down and unloosed her hair , which was of pure gold . 
Curdken loved to see it glitter in the sun , and wanted much to pull some hair out . 
Then a gust of wind blew Curdken's hat away , and he had to chase it over hill and dale . 
When he returned from the pursuit she had finished her combing and curling , and his chance of getting any hair was gone . 
Curdken was very angry , and wouldn't speak to her . 
So they herded the geese till evening and then went home . 
But that evening when they got home Curdken went to the old King , and said I refuse to herd geese any longer with that girl . 
For what reason ? asked the old King . 
And Curdken went on to tell what passed on the common where the geese fed , and how he had always to chase his hat . 
Then he followed her through the field , and hid himself behind a bush on the common . 
In the evening when the goose girl came home he called her aside , and asked her why she behaved as she did . 
I may not tell you why how dare I confide my woes to anyone ? for I swore not to by heaven , otherwise I should have lost my life . 
The old King begged her to tell him all , and left her no peace , but he could get nothing out of her . 
At last he said Well , if you won't tell me , confide your trouble to the iron stove there , and he went away . 
If my mother only knew Her heart would surely break in two . 
But the old King stood outside at the stove chimney , and listened to her words . 
Then he entered the room again , and bidding her leave the stove , he ordered royal apparel to be put on her , in which she looked amazingly lovely . 
The young King re joiced from his heart when he saw her beauty and learned how good she was , and a great banquet was prepared , to which everyone was bidden . 
Now when they had eaten and drunk , and were merry , the old King asked the waiting maid to solve a knotty point for him . 
You are the person , said the King , and you have passed sentence on yourself and even so it shall be done to you . 
And when the sentence had been carried out the young King was married to his real bride , and both reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness . 
TOADS AND DIAMONDS THERE was once upon a time a widow who had two daughters . 
The eldest was so much like her in the face and humor that whoever looked upon the daughter saw the mother . 
They were both so disagreeable and so proud that there was no living with them . 
The youngest , who was the very picture of her father for courtesy and sweetness of temper , was withal one of the most beautiful girls ever seen . 
Among other things , this poor child was forced twice a day to draw water above a mile and a half off the house , and bring home a pitcher full of it . 
One day , as she was at this fountain , there came to her a poor woman , who begged of her to let her drink . 
The good woman , having drunk , said to her You are so very pretty , my dear , so good and so mannerly , that I cannot help giving you a gift . 
For this was a fairy , who had taken the form of a poor country woman , to see how far the civility and good manners of this pretty girl would go . 
I will give you for a gift , continued the Fairy , that , at every word you speak , there shall come out of your mouth either a flower or a jewel . 
When this pretty girl came home her mother scolded her for staying so long at the fountain . 
I beg your pardon , mamma , said the poor girl , for not making more haste . 
And in speaking these words there came out of her mouth two roses , two pearls , and two diamonds What is it I see there ? said the mother , quite astonished . 
I think I see pearls and diamonds come out of the girl's mouth ! How happens this , child ? This was the first time she had ever called her child . 
The poor creature told her frankly all the matter , not without dropping out infinite numbers of diamonds . 
In good faith , cried the mother , I must send my child thither . 
Come hither , Fanny look what comes out of thy sister's mouth when she speaks . 
It would be a very fine sight indeed , said this ill bred minx , to see me go draw water . 
You shall go , hussy ! said the mother and this minute . 
So away she went , but grumbling all the way , taking with her the best silver tankard in the house . 
She was no sooner at the fountain than she saw coming out of the wood a lady most gloriously dressed , who came up to her , and asked to drink . 
You are not over and above mannerly , answered the Fairy , without putting herself in a passion . 
The poor child fled away from her , and went to hide herself in the forest , not far from thence . 
The King's son , then on his return from hunting , met her , and seeing her so very pretty , asked her what she did there alone and why she cried . 
Alas ! sir , my mamma has turned me out of doors . 
The King's son , who saw five or six pearls and as many diamonds come out of her mouth , desired her to tell him how that happened . 
PRINCE DARLING ONCE upon a time there lived a king who was so just and kind that his subjects called him the Good King . 
It happened one day , when he was out hunting , that a little white rabbit , which his dogs were chasing , sprang into his arms for shelter . 
The King stroked it gently , and said to it Well , bunny , as you have come to me for protection I will see that nobody hurts you . 
And he took it home to his palace and had it put in a pretty little house , with all sorts of nice things to eat . 
The good King was very much surprised to see her , for he knew his door had been tightly shut , and he could not think how she had got in . 
But she said to him I am the Fairy Truth . 
If you had refused to help me I should have been certain that you were wicked . 
I thank you for the kindness you have shown me , which has made me your friend for ever . 
You have only to ask me for anything you want and I promise that I will give it to you . 
Madam , said the good King , since you are a fairy you no doubt know all my wishes . 
I have but one son whom I love very dearly , that is why he is called Prince Darling . 
If you are really good enough to wish to do me a favor , I beg that you will become his friend . 
With all my heart , answered the Fairy . 
I can make your son the handsomest prince in the world , or the richest , or the most powerful choose whichever you like for him . 
Only a good man can be really contented . 
The good King was quite satisfied with this promise and very soon afterward he died . 
At the same time she put a little gold ring upon his finger . 
So saying , the Fairy disappeared , leaving Prince Darling very much astonished . 
For some time he behaved so well that the ring never pricked him , and that made him so contented that his subjects called him Prince Darling the Happy . 
When he got home and went to his own room , his little dog Bibi ran to meet him , jumping round him with pleasure . 
Get away ! said the Prince , quite gruffly . 
I don't want you , you are in the way . 
Instantly his ring pricked him sharply , as if it had been a pin . 
He was very much surprised , and sat down in a corner of his room feeling quite ashamed of himself . 
I believe the Fairy is laughing at me , he thought . 
You have committed three faults . 
The advantage of possessing a great empire is not to be able to do the evil that one desires , but to do all the good that one possibly can . 
The Prince saw how naughty he had been , and promised to try and do better in future , but he did not keep his word . 
The fact was he had been brought up by a foolish nurse , who had spoiled him when he was little . 
His ring pricked him very often , and sometimes he left off what he was doing at once but at other times he would not attend to it . 
Strangely enough , it gave him only a slight prick for a trifling fault , but when he was really naughty it made his finger actually bleed . 
He gave himself up to doing every foolish thing that occurred to him , until he became quite wicked and nobody could like him any longer . 
One day , when the Prince was walking about , he saw a young girl who was so very pretty that he made up his mind at once that he would marry her . 
Her name was Celia , and she was as good as she was beautiful . 
Do you dislike me ? asked the Prince , who was very much vexed at this answer . 
All day long the remembrance of what she had said annoyed him , but as he loved her he could not make up his mind to have her punished . 
Why , if you cannot make a girl like that do as you wish , your subjects will soon forget that they are only put into this world for our pleasure . 
But , said Prince Darling , would it not be a shame if I had an innocent girl put to death ? For Celia has done nothing to deserve punishment . 
His anger was terrible , and he vowed vengeance against whoever had helped her to escape . 
The Prince , in great anger , sent his foster brother with a number of soldiers to bring his tutor before him , in chains , like a criminal . 
I promised your father , said she sternly , to give you good advice , and to punish you if you refused to follow it . 
You have despised my counsel , and have gone your own evil way until you are only outwardly a man really you are a monster the horror of everyone who knows you . 
It is time that I should fulfil my promise , and begin your punishment . 
I condemn you to resemble the animals whose ways you have imitated . 
You have made yourself like the lion by your anger , and like the wolf by your greediness . 
Like a snake , you have ungratefully turned upon one who was a second father to you your churlishness has made you like a bull . 
Therefore , in your new form , take the appearance of all these animals . 
The Fairy had scarcely finished speaking when Prince Darling saw to his horror that her words were fulfilled . 
He had a lion's head , a bull's horns , a wolf's feet , and a snake's body . 
Prince Darling roared with anger when he heard this but it was still worse for him when he reached the great square before his own palace . 
He saw Suilman seated upon a magnificent throne , and all the people crowded round , wishing him a long life that he might undo all the mischief done by his predecessor . 
Alas ! he continued , he was led away by flatterers . 
We may hate his faults , but let us pity him and hope for his restoration . 
As for me , I would die gladly if that could bring back our Prince to reign justly and worthily once more . 
He left off tearing at the iron bars of the cage in which he was shut up , and became as gentle as a lamb . 
One day when this keeper was asleep a tiger broke its chain , and flew at him to eat him up . 
I would return good for evil , he said to himself , and save the unhappy man's life . 
He had hardly wished this when his iron cage flew open , and he rushed to the side of the keeper , who was awake and was defending himself against the tiger . 
So poor Prince Darling was terribly hungry all day long , but he was very patient about it . 
But he was surprised to find that the brook was gone , and where it had been stood a great house that seemed to be built of gold and precious stones . 
Numbers of people splendidly dressed were going into it , and sounds of music and dancing and feasting could be heard from the windows . 
But what seemed very strange was that those people who came out of the house were pale and thin , and their clothes were torn , and hanging in rags about them . 
Prince Darling went up to a young girl who was trying to eat a few blades of grass , she was so hungry . 
So he laid his piece of bread in the girl's hand , and saw her eat it up eagerly . 
He determined not to quit the place till he knew what had become of Celia , and blamed himself for what had befallen her . 
He remembered that white was the favorite color of the Fairy Truth , and began to hope that he might at last win back her favor . 
No trace of Celia was to be seen , and the Prince , in despair , determined to search through the world till he found her . 
You need not be afraid that she will change her mind , said the Fairy , throwing off the hermit's robe in which she had been disguised and appearing before them . 
Celia has loved you ever since she first saw you , only she would not tell you while you were so obstinate and naughty . 
Now you have repented and mean to be good you deserve to be happy , and so she may love you as much as she likes . 
Celia and Prince Darling threw themselves at the Fairy's feet , and the Prince was never tired of thanking her for her kindness . 
Celia was delighted to hear how sorry he was for all his past follies and misdeeds , and promised to love him as long as she lived . 
Rise , my children , said the Fairy , and I will transport you to the palace , and Prince Darling shall have back again the crown he forfeited by his bad behavior . 
While she was speaking , they found themselves in Suilman's hall , and his delight was great at seeing his dear master once more . 
He gave up the throne joyfully to the Prince , and remained always the most faithful of his subjects . 
But this man was so unlucky as to have a blue beard , which made him so frightfully ugly that all the women and girls ran away from him . 
One of his neighbors , a lady of quality , had two daughters who were perfect beauties . 
He desired of her one of them in marriage , leaving to her choice which of the two she would bestow on him . 
There was nothing then to be seen but parties of pleasure , hunting , fishing , dancing , mirth , and feasting . 
Nobody went to bed , but all passed the night in rallying and joking with each other . 
As soon as they returned home , the marriage was concluded . 
But for this little one here , it is the key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the ground floor . 
She promised to observe , very exactly , whatever he had ordered when he , after having embraced her , got into his coach and proceeded on his journey . 
They ran through all the rooms , closets , and wardrobes , which were all so fine and rich that they seemed to surpass one another . 
She then took the little key , and opened it , trembling , but could not at first see anything plainly , because the windows were shut . 
After some moments she began to perceive that the floor was all covered over with clotted blood , on which lay the bodies of several dead women , ranged against the walls . 
She thought she should have died for fear , and the key , which she pulled out of the lock , fell out of her hand . 
His wife did all she could to convince him she was extremely glad of his speedy return . 
Next morning he asked her for the keys , which she gave him , but with such a trembling hand that he easily guessed what had happened . 
What ! said he , is not the key of my closet among the rest ? I must certainly have left it above upon the table , said she . 
Fail not to bring it to me presently , said Blue Beard . 
After several goings backward and forward she was forced to bring him the key . 
You do not know ! replied Blue Beard . 
You were resolved to go into the closet , were you not ? Mighty well , madam you shall go in , and take your place among the ladies you saw there . 
Upon this she threw herself at her husband's feet , and begged his pardon with all the signs of true repentance , vowing that she would never more be disobedient . 
, give me some little time to say my prayers . 
I give you , replied Blue Beard , half a quarter of an hour , but not one moment more . 
Come down quickly , cried Blue Beard , or I will come up to you . 
Are they my brothers ? Alas ! no , my dear sister , I see a flock of sheep . 
God be praised , replied the poor wife joyfully they are my brothers I will make them a sign , as well as I can , for them to make haste . 
Then Blue Beard bawled out so loud that he made the whole house tremble . 
The distressed wife came down , and threw herself at his feet , all in tears , with her hair about her shoulders . 
The poor lady , turning about to him , and looking at him with dying eyes , desired him to afford her one little moment to recollect herself . 
No , no , said he , recommend thyself to God , and was just ready to strike . 
At this very instant there was such a loud knocking at the gate that Blue Beard made a sudden stop . 
The gate was opened , and presently entered two horsemen , who , drawing their swords , ran directly to Blue Beard . 
The poor wife was almost as dead as her husband , and had not strength enough to rise and welcome her brothers . 
Blue Beard had no heirs , and so his wife became mistress of all his estate . 
TRUSTY JOHN ONCE upon a time there was an old king who was so ill that he thought to himself , I am most likely on my death bed . 
Then he said , Send Trusty John to me . 
Now Trusty John was his favorite servant , and was so called because all his life he had served him so faithfully . 
Then Trusty John answered I will never desert him , and will serve him faithfully , even though it should cost me my life . 
And when Trusty John had again given the King his hand upon it the old man became silent , laid his head on the pillow , and died . 
Now when the time of mourning was over , Trusty John said to him It is time you should see your inheritance . 
I will show you your ancestral castle . 
So he took him over everything , and let him see all the riches and splendid apartments , only the one room where the picture was he did not open . 
But the King replied I have seen the whole castle , and shall find out what is in there and with these words he approached the door and wanted to force it open . 
But Trusty John held him back , and said I promised your father before his death that you shouldn't see what that room contains . 
It might bring both you and me to great grief . 
Now I don't budge from the spot till you have opened the door . 
Then Trusty John saw there was no way out of it , so with a heavy heart and many sighs he took the key from the big bunch . 
And when he saw the picture of the maid , so beautiful and glittering with gold and precious stones , he fell swooning to the ground . 
The first words he spoke were Oh ! who is the original of the beautiful picture ? She is the Princess of the Golden Roof , answered Trusty John . 
You are my most trusty John you must stand by me . 
The faithful servant pondered long how they were to set about the matter , for it was said to be difficult even to get into the presence of the Princess . 
We shall go to her with them and try our luck . 
The King summoned all his goldsmiths , and they had to work hard day and night , till at length the most magnificent things were completed . 
When a ship had been laden with them the faithful John disguised himself as a merchant , and the King had to do the same , so that they should be quite unrecognizable . 
And so they crossed the seas and journeyed till they reached the town where the Princess of the Golden Roof dwelt . 
Trusty John made the King remain behind on the ship and await his return . 
Perhaps , he said , I may bring the Princess back with me , so see that everything is in order let the gold ornaments be arranged and the whole ship decorated . 
Then he took a few of the gold things in his apron , went ashore , and proceeded straight to the palace . 
When he came to the courtyard he found a beautiful maiden standing at the well , drawing water with two golden pails . 
And as she was about to carry away the glittering water she turned round and saw the stranger , and asked him who he was . 
Then he replied I am a merchant , and opening his apron , he let her peep in . 
Oh ! my , she cried what beautiful gold wares ! she set down her pails , and examined one thing after the other . 
Then she said The Princess must see this , she has such a fancy for gold things that she will buy up all you have . 
She took him by the hand and let him into the palace , for she was the lady's maid . 
When the Princess had seen the wares she was quite enchanted , and said They are all so beautifully made that I shall buy everything you have . 
Thus her desire and curiosity were excited to such an extent that at last she said Take me to your ship I shall go there myself and view your master's treasures . 
She stepped on to the ship , and the King led her inside . 
But Trusty John remained behind with the steersman , and ordered the ship to push off . 
Spread all sail , that we may fly on the ocean like a bird in the air . 
Meanwhile the King showed the Princess inside all his gold wares , every single bit of it dishes , goblets , bowls , the birds and game , and all the wonderful beasts . 
Many hours passed thus , and she was so happy that she did not notice that the ship was sailing away . 
The first time I saw your likeness I fell to the ground in a swoon . 
When the Princess of the Golden Roof heard this she was comforted , and her heart went out to him , so that she willingly consented to become his wife . 
He ceased playing , and listened to what they were saying , for he understood their language . 
The one croaked Ah , ha ! so he's bringing the Princess of the Golden Roof home . 
Yes , answered the second , but he's not got her yet . 
Yes , he has , spake the third , for she's sitting beside him on the ship . 
Is there no escape for him ? asked number two . 
Oh ! yes , if someone else mounts quickly and shoots the horse dead with the pistol that is sticking in the holster , then the young King is saved . 
But who's to do that ? And anyone who knows it and tells him will be turned into stone from his feet to his knees . 
But what's the good ? Anyone knowing this and telling it will have half his body turned into stone , from his knees to his heart . 
But if anyone who knows this betrays it , he will be turned into stone from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet . 
At last he said I will stand by my master , though it should be my ruin . 
Now when they drew near the land it came to pass just as the ravens had predicted , and a splendid chestnut horse bounded forward . 
But the young King spoke Who knows for what good purpose he does it ? Let him alone , he is my most trusty John . 
Then the wedding was celebrated , the dance began , and the bride joined in , but Trusty John watched her countenance carefully . 
Of a sudden she grew deadly white , and fell to the ground as if she were dead . 
On the following morning sentence was passed on Trusty John , and he was condemned to be hanged . 
Then the King cried Oh ! my most trusty John , pardon ! pardon ! Take him down . 
But as he uttered the last word Trusty John had fallen lifeless to the ground , and was a stone . 
And the King cried out All I have in the world will I give up for your sake . 
The stone continued If you cut off with your own hand the heads of your two children , and smear me with their blood , I shall come back to life . 
And when he had smeared the stone with their blood , life came back , and Trusty John stood once more safe and sound before him . 
Then the King was full of joy , and when he saw the Queen coming , he hid Trusty John and the two children in a big cupboard . 
Then he spake Dear wife , we can restore him to life , but the price asked is our two little sons we must sacrifice them . 
The Queen grew white and her heart sank , but she replied We owe it to him on account of his great fidelity . 
Then he related to her all that had passed , and they lived together happily ever afterward . 
THE BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR ONE summer's day a little tailor sat on his table by the window in the best of spirits , and sewed for dear life . 
As he was sitting thus a peasant woman came down the street , calling out Good jam to sell , good jam to sell . 
This sounded sweetly in the tailor's ears he put his frail little head out of the window , and shouted up here , my good woman , and you'll find a willing customer . 
The woman climbed up the three flights of stairs with her heavy basket to the tailor's room , and he made her spread out all the pots in a row before him . 
The woman , who had hoped to find a good market , gave him what he wanted , but went away grumbling wrathfully . 
Now heaven shall bless this jam for my use , cried the little tailor , and it shall sustain and strengthen me . 
He fetched some bread out of a cupboard , cut a round off the loaf , and spread the jam on it . 
That won't taste amiss , he said but I'll finish that waistcoat first before I take a bite . 
He placed the bread beside him , went on sewing , and out of the lightness of his heart kept on making his stitches bigger and bigger . 
Ha ! who invited you ? said the tailor , and chased the unwelcome guests away . 
But the flies , who didn't understand English , refused to let themselves be warned off , and returned again in even greater numbers . 
When he left off he counted the slain , and no fewer than seven lay dead before him with outstretched legs . 
What a desperate fellow I am ! said he , and was filled with admiration at his own courage . 
What did I say , the town ? no , the whole world shall hear of it , he said and his heart beat for joy as a lamb wags his tail . 
The tailor strapped the girdle round his waist and set out into the wide world , for he considered his workroom too small a field for his prowess . 
In front of the house he observed a bird that had been caught in some bushes , and this he put into his wallet beside the cheese . 
Then he went on his way merrily , and being light and agile he never felt tired . 
His way led up a hill , on the top of which sat a powerful giant , who was calmly surveying the landscape . 
The little tailor went up to him , and greeting him cheerfully said Good day , friend there you sit at your ease viewing the whole wide world . 
I'm just on my way there . 
There now , you can read what sort of a fellow I am . 
The giant read Seven at a blow and thinking they were human beings the tailor had slain , he conceived a certain respect for the little man . 
But first he thought he'd test him , so taking up a stone in his hand , he squeezed it till some drops of water ran out . 
Now you do the same , said the giant , if you really wish to be thought strong . 
My squeeze was in sooth better than yours , said he . 
The giant didn't know what to say , for he couldn't have believed it of the little fellow . 
To prove him again , the giant lifted a stone and threw it so high that the eye could hardly follow it . 
Now , my little pigmy , let me see you do that . 
Well thrown , said the tailor but , after all , your stone fell to the ground I'll throw one that won't come down at all . 
He dived into his wallet again , and grasping the bird in his hand , he threw it up into the air . 
The bird , enchanted to be free , soared up into the sky , and flew away never to return . 
Well , what do you think of that little piece of business , friend ? asked the tailor . 
You can certainly throw , said the giant but now let's see if you can carry a proper weight . 
Most certainly , said the little tailor just you take the trunk on your shoulder I'll bear the top and branches , which is certainly the heaviest part . 
There he sat behind in the best of spirits , lustily whistling a tune , as if carrying the tree were mere sport . 
The giant , after dragging the heavy weight for some time , could get on no further , and shouted out Hi ! I must let the tree fall . 
Do you do the like if you dare . 
The giant made an attempt , but couldn't get over the tree , and stuck fast in the branches , so that here too the little tailor had the better of him . 
Well , you're a fine fellow , after all , said the giant come and spend the night with us in our cave . 
The little tailor looked about him , and thought Yes , there's certainly more room to turn round in here than in my workshop . 
The giant showed him a bed and bade him lie down and have a good sleep . 
But the bed was too big for the little tailor , so he didn't get into it , but crept away into the corner . 
The giants were terrified at the apparition , and , fearful lest he should slay them , they all took to their heels as fast as they could . 
While he lay there the people came , and looking him all over read on his girdle Seven at a blow . 
Oh ! they said , what can this great hero of a hundred fights want in our peaceful land ? He must indeed be a mighty man of valor . 
This counsel pleased the King , and he sent one of his courtiers down to the little tailor , to offer him , when he awoke , a commission in their army . 
The messenger remained standing by the sleeper , and waited till he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes , when he tendered his proposal . 
That's the very thing I came here for , he answered I am quite ready to enter the King's service . 
So he was received with all honor , and given a special house of his own to live in . 
But the other officers resented the success of the little tailor , and wished him a thousand miles away . 
What's to come of it all ? they asked each other if we quarrel with him , he'll let out at us , and at every blow seven will fall . 
There'll soon be an end of us . 
So they resolved to go in a body to the King , and all to send in their papers . 
We are not made , they said , to hold out against a man who kills seven at a blow . 
But he didn't dare to send him away , for he feared he might kill him along with his people , and place himself on the throne . 
He pondered long and deeply over the matter , and finally came to a conclusion . 
He sent to the tailor and told him that , seeing what a great and warlike hero he was , he was about to make him an offer . 
That's the very thing for a man like me , thought the little tailor one doesn't get the offer of a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day . 
Done with you , he answered I'll soon put an end to the giants . 
But I haven't the smallest need of your hundred horsemen a fellow who can slay seven men at a blow need not be afraid of two . 
The little tailor set out , and the hundred horsemen followed him . 
After a while he spied the two giants lying asleep under a tree , and snoring till the very boughs bent with the breeze . 
The little tailor lost no time in filling his wallet with stones , and then climbed up the tree under which they lay . 
They wrangled on for a time , till , as both were tired , they made up the matter and fell asleep again . 
The little tailor began his game once more , and flung the largest stone he could find in his wallet with all his force , and hit the first giant on the chest . 
This is too much of a good thing ! he yelled , and springing up like a madman , he knocked his companion against the tree till he trembled . 
Then the little tailor jumped down . 
Weren't you wounded ? asked the horsemen . 
No fear , answered the tailor they haven't touched a hair of my head . 
But the horsemen wouldn't believe him till they rode into the wood and found the giants weltering in their blood , and the trees lying around , torn up by the roots . 
The little tailor now demanded the promised reward from the King , but he repented his promise , and pondered once more how he could rid himself of the hero . 
Before you obtain the hand of my daughter and half my kingdom , he said to him , you must do another deed of valor . 
A unicorn is running about loose in the wood , and doing much mischief you must first catch it . 
I'm even less afraid of one unicorn than of two giants seven at a blow , that's my motto . 
He took a piece of cord and an axe with him , went out to the wood , and again told the men who had been sent with him to remain outside . 
Still the King didn't want to give him the promised reward and made a third demand . 
The tailor was to catch a wild boar for him that did a great deal of harm in the wood and he might have the huntsmen to help him . 
Willingly , said the tailor that's mere child's play . 
The boar pursued him into the church , but the tailor skipped round to the door , and closed it securely . 
So the raging beast was caught , for it was far too heavy and unwieldy to spring out of the window . 
The little tailor summoned the huntsmen together , that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes . 
Had he known that no hero warrior , but only a little tailor stood before him , it would have gone even more to his heart . 
So the wedding was celebrated with much splendor and little joy , and the tailor became a king . 
After a time the Queen heard her husband saying one night in his sleep My lad , make that waistcoat and patch these trousers , or I'll box your ears . 
I'll soon put a stop to the business , said the tailor . 
So the little tailor was and remained a king all the days of his life . 
A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT CHAPTER I MY father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire , and I was the third of four sons . 
He sent me to Cambridge at fourteen years old , and after studying there three years I was bound apprentice to Mr. Bates , a famous surgeon in London . 
Three years after my leaving him my good master , Mr. Bates , recommended me as ship's surgeon to the Swallow , on which I voyaged three years . 
When I came back I settled in London , and , having taken part of a small house , I married Miss Mary Burton , daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton , hosier . 
But my good master Bates died two years after and as I had few friends my business began to fail , and I determined to go again to sea . 
After several voyages , I accepted an offer from Captain W. Pritchard , master of the Antelope , who was making a voyage to the South Sea . 
We set sail from Bristol , May , and our voyage at first was very prosperous . 
But in our passage to the East Indies we were driven by a violent storm to the north west of Van Diemen's Land . 
Twelve of our crew died from hard labor and bad food , and the rest were in a very weak condition . 
We therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves and in about half an hour the boat was upset by a sudden squall . 
What became of my companions in the boat , or those who escaped on the rock or were left in the vessel , I cannot tell but I conclude they were all lost . 
By this time the storm was much abated . 
I reached the shore at last , about eight o'clock in the evening , and advanced nearly half a mile inland , but could not discover any sign of inhabitants . 
I was extremely tired , and with the heat of the weather I found myself much inclined to sleep . 
I lay down on the grass , which was very short and soft , and slept sounder than ever I did in my life for about nine hours . 
When I woke , it was just daylight . 
I could only look upward . 
The sun began to grow hot , and the light hurt my eyes . 
I heard a confused noise about me , but could see nothing except the sky . 
In the meantime I felt at least forty more following the first . 
However , they soon returned , and one of them , who ventured so far as to get a full sight of my face , lifted up his hands in admiration . 
Moreover , they shot another flight into the air , of which some fell on my face , which I immediately covered with my left hand . 
There were legs and shoulders like mutton but smaller than the wings of a lark . 
I ate them two or three at a mouthful , and took three loaves at a time . 
They supplied me as fast as they could , with a thousand marks of wonder at my appetite . 
I then made a sign that I wanted something to drink . 
I drank it off at a draught , which I might well do , for it did not hold half a pint . 
They brought me a second hogshead , which I drank , and made signs for more but they had none to give me . 
After some time there appeared before me a person of high rank from his Imperial Majesty . 
, to show that I desired my liberty . 
Then they daubed my face and hands with a sweet smelling ointment , which in a few minutes removed all the smarts of the arrows . 
The relief from pain and hunger made me drowsy , and presently I fell asleep . 
, that plenty of meat and drink should be sent me , and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city . 
Five hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately set to work to prepare the engine . 
It was a frame of wood , raised three inches from the ground , about seven feet long and four wide , moving upon twenty two wheels . 
But the difficulty was to place me on it . 
Eighty poles were erected for this purpose , and very strong cords fastened to bandages which the workmen had tied round my neck , hands , body , and legs . 
Fifteen hundred of the Emperor's largest horses , each about four inches and a half high , were then employed to draw me toward the capital . 
But while all this was done I still lay in a deep sleep , and I did not wake till four hours after we began our journey . 
Where the carriage stopped there stood an ancient temple , supposed to be the largest in the whole kingdom , and here it was determined that I should lodge . 
Then I rose up , feeling as melancholy as ever I did in my life . 
But the noise and astonishment of the people on seeing me rise and walk were inexpressible . 
The Emperor , advancing toward me from among his courtiers , all most magnificently clad , surveyed me with great admiration , but kept beyond the length of my chain . 
He was taller by about the breadth of my nail than any of his Court , which alone was enough to strike awe into the beholders , and graceful and majestic . 
The better to behold him , I lay down on my side , so that my face was level with his , and he stood three yards off . 
However , I have had him since many times in my hand , and therefore cannot be deceived . 
His dress was very simple but he wore a light helmet of gold , adorned with jewels and a plume . 
His voice was shrill , but very clear . 
His Imperial Majesty spoke often to me , and I answered but neither of us could understand a word . 
But the colonel ordered six of them to be seized and delivered bound into my hands . 
I put five of them into my coat pocket and as to the sixth , I made a face as if I would eat him alive . 
The poor man screamed terribly , and the colonel and his officers were much distressed , especially when they saw me take out my penknife . 
But I soon set them at ease , for , cutting the strings he was bound with , I put him gently on the ground , and away he ran . 
Six hundred servants were appointed me , and three hundred tailors made me a suit of clothes . 
I took up the two officers , and put them into my coat pockets . 
In the left pocket we saw a huge silver chest , with a silver cover , which we could not lift . 
In the left there was a sort of engine , from the back of which extended twenty long poles , with which , we conjecture , the Man Mountain combs his head . 
In the smaller pocket on the right side were several round flat pieces of white and red metal , of different sizes . 
Some of the white , which appeared to be silver , were so large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them . 
This is a list of what we found about the body of the Man Mountain , who treated us with great civility . 
The natives came by degrees to be less fearful of danger from me . 
I amused the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner . 
I took nine sticks , and fixed them firmly in the ground in a square . 
Then I took four other sticks , and tied them parallel at each corner , about two feet from the ground . 
His majesty approved of the proposal , and I took them up one by one , with the proper officers to exercise them . 
Fortunately no accident happened , only once a fiery horse , pawing with his hoof , struck a hole in my handkerchief , and overthrew his rider and himself . 
But I immediately relieved them both , and covering the hole with one hand , I set down the troop with the other as I had taken them up . 
The horse that fell was strained in the shoulder but the rider was not hurt , and I repaired my handkerchief as well as I could . 
However , I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerous enterprises . 
However , he agreed at length , though he succeeded in himself drawing up the conditions on which I should be set free . 
The Man Mountain shall not depart from our dominions without our license under the great seal . 
He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without our express order , at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours' warning to keep within doors . 
The said Man Mountain shall confine his walks to our principal high roads , and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field of corn . 
safe to our imperial presence . 
He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of Blefuscu , and do his utmost to destroy their fleet , which is now preparing to invade us . 
Given at our palace at Belfaburac , the twelfth day of the ninety first moon of our reign . 
I swore to these articles with great cheerfulness , whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked , and I was at full liberty . 
One morning , about a fortnight after I had obtained my freedom , Reldresal , the Emperor's secretary for private affairs , came to my house , attended only by one servant . 
He ordered his coach to wait at a distance , and desired that I would give him an hour's audience . 
I offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my ear but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our conversation . 
He began with compliments on my liberty , but he added that , save for the present state of things at Court , perhaps I might not have obtained it so soon . 
Whereupon the Emperor , his father , made a law commanding all his subjects to break the smaller end of their eggs . 
The people so highly resented this law that there have been six rebellions raised on that account , wherein one emperor lost his life , and another his crown . 
It is calculated that eleven hundred persons have at different times suffered rather than break their eggs at the smaller end . 
Therefore his Imperial Majesty , placing great confidence in your valor and strength , has commanded me to set the case before you . 
CHAPTER IV It was not long before I communicated to his Majesty the plan I formed for seizing the enemy's whole fleet . 
The Empire of Blefuscu is an island parted from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yards wide . 
I consulted the most experienced seamen on the depth of the channel , and they told me that in the middle , at high water , it was seventy glumguffs . 
I then came back to my house and gave orders for a great quantity of the strongest cables and bars of iron . 
The cable was about as thick as packthread , and the bars of the length and size of a knitting needle . 
I trebled the cable to make it stronger , and for the same reason twisted three of the iron bars together , bending the ends into a hook . 
I waded with what haste I could , swimming in the middle about thirty yards , till I felt ground , and thus arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour . 
The enemy was so frightened when they saw me that they leaped out of their ships and swam ashore , where there could not be fewer than thirty thousand . 
Then , fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship , I tied all the cords together at the end . 
Meanwhile the enemy discharged several thousand arrows , many of which stuck in my hands and face . 
My greatest fear was for my eyes , which I should have lost if I had not suddenly thought of the pair of spectacles which had escaped the Emperor's searchers . 
Then , taking the knot in my hand , I began to pull but not a ship would stir , for they were too fast held by their anchors . 
Thus the boldest part of my enterprise remained . 
Letting go the cord , I resolutely cut with my knife the cables that fastened the anchors , receiving more than two hundred shots in my face and hands . 
Then I took up again the knotted end of the cables to which my hooks were tied , and with great ease drew fifty of the enemy's largest men of war after me . 
When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet moving in order , and me pulling at the end , they set up a scream of grief and despair that it is impossible to describe . 
I then took off my spectacles , and after waiting about an hour , till the tide was a little fallen , I waded on to the royal port of Lilliput . 
The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the shore awaiting me . 
The Emperor concluded that I was drowned , and that the enemy's fleet was approaching in a hostile manner . 
And from this time a plot began between himself and those of his Ministers who were my enemies , that nearly ended in my utter destruction . 
About three weeks after this exploit there arrived an embassy from Blefuscu , with humble offers of peace , which was soon concluded , on terms very advantageous to our Emperor . 
There were six ambassadors , with a train of about five hundred persons , all very magnificent . 
I asked them to present my most humble respects to the Emperor their master , whose royal person I resolved to attend before I returned to my own country . 
Accordingly , the next time I had the honor to see our Emperor I desired his general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch . 
This he granted me , but in a very cold manner , of which I afterward learned the reason . 
His lordship's face was full of trouble and he asked me to hear him with patience , in a matter that highly concerned my honor and my life . 
This lord and others have accused you of treason , and several councils have been called in the most private manner on your account . 
Moreover , you are now preparing , contrary to the duty of a faithful subject , to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu . 
But his Majesty was graciously pleased to say that since the council thought the loss of your eyes too easy a punishment , some other might afterward be inflicted . 
Thus , through the great friendship of the secretary the affair was arranged . 
It was commanded that the plan of starving you by degrees should be kept a secret but the sentence of putting out your eyes was entered on the books . 
Twenty of his Majesty's surgeons will attend , to see the operation well performed , by discharging very sharp pointed arrows into the balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground . 
I leave you , said my friend , to consider what measures you will take and , to escape suspicion , I must immediately return , as secretly as I came . 
His lordship did so and I remained alone , in great perplexity . 
At last , having his Majesty's leave to pay my respects to the Emperor of Ble fuscu , I resolved to take this opportunity . 
I did not , however , mention my disgrace with the Emperor of Lilliput , since I did not suppose that prince would disclose the secret while I was out of his power . 
But in this , it soon appeared , I was deceived . 
The Emperor of Blefuscu answered with many civil excuses . 
He said that as for sending me bound , his brother knew it was impossible . 
Moreover , though I had taken away his fleet he was grateful to me for many good offices I had done him in making the peace . 
hastened my departure , resolving never more to put confidence in princes . 
In about a month I was ready to take leave . 
and his picture at full length , which I put immediately into one of my gloves , to keep it from being hurt . 
Many other ceremonies took place at my departure . 
Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able , I set sail . 
When I had made twenty four leagues , by my reckoning , from the island of Blefuscu , I saw a sail steering to the northeast . 
I came up with her between five and six in the evening , Sept . 
, but my heart leaped within me to see her English colors . 
I put my cows and sheep into my coat pockets , and got on board with all my little cargo . 
The captain received me with kindness , and asked me to tell him what place I came from last but at my answer he thought I was raving . 
However , I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket , which , after great astonishment , clearly convinced him . 
We arrived in England on the th of April , . 
I stayed two months with my wife and family but my eager desire to see foreign countries would suffer me to remain no longer . 
However , while in England I made great profit by showing my cattle to persons of quality and others and before I began my second voyage I sold them for l . 
But there had not been much hay in the barn for the last two years , for every St . 
So the next oldest son was willing to show what he could do . 
John's night , and when the youth heard it he was terrified , and went off , running as if for a wager . 
The year after , it was Cinderlad's turn , but when he made ready to go the others laughed at him , and mocked him . 
Well , you are just the right one to watch the hay , you who have never learned anything but how to sit among the ashes and bake yourself ! said they . 
Cinderlad , however , did not trouble himself about what they said , but when evening drew near rambled away to the outlying field . 
When he got there he went into the barn and lay down , but in about an hour's time the rumbling and creaking began , and it was frightful to hear it . 
Well , if it gets no worse than that , I can manage to stand it , thought Cinderlad . 
In a little time the creaking began again , and the earth quaked so that all the hay flew about the boy . 
Oh ! if it gets no worse than that I can manage to stand it , thought Cinderlad . 
I am pretty sure that it will come again , thought Cinderlad but no , it did not . 
He stole away to the door , which was ajar , to see what was there , and a horse was standing eating . 
Ha , ha ! it is thou who eatest up our hay then , thought the boy but I will stop that . 
So he mounted it and rode away to a place which no one knew of but himself , and there he tied it up . 
When he went home again his brothers laughed and asked how he had got on . 
You didn't lie long in the barn , if even you have been so far as the field ! said they . 
I lay in the barn till the sun rose , but I saw nothing and heard nothing , not I , said the boy . 
God knows what there was to make you two so frightened . 
Ho , ho ! thought the boy , is it thou who eatest up our hay in the night ? but I will put a stop to that . 
So he took out his steel for striking fire , and threw it over the horse's mane , and the beast stood there as quiet as a lamb . 
Then the boy rode this horse , too , away to the place where he kept the other , and then went home again . 
I suppose you will tell us that you have watched well again this time , said the brothers . 
Well , so I have , said Cinderlad . 
So they went there again . 
and there the grass was , standing as high and as thick as it had been before , but that did not make them any kinder to Cinderlad . 
Ho , ho ! it is thou , then , who art eating up our hay this time , thought the boy but I will put a stop to that . 
Then he mounted it and rode away to the place where he had the two others , and then he went home again . 
They did go , and this time too the grass was standing , looking as fine and as thick as ever . 
The King had this proclaimed in every church in the whole kingdom , and in many other kingdoms too . 
The Princess was very beautiful , and all who saw her fell violently in love with her , even in spite of themselves . 
Well , then , I will go all alone by myself , said Cinderlad . 
Nor was that strange , for the hill was as smooth as a glass window pane , and as steep as the side of a house . 
But they were all eager to win the King's daughter and half the kingdom , so they rode and they slipped , and thus it went on . 
But when he had come down from off the hill he rode away , and that so fast that no one knew what had become of him . 
But no one had anything to show . 
One knight presented himself after the other , and none could show the apple . 
At night , too , Cinderlad's brothers came home again and had a long story to tell about riding up the glass hill . 
Oh ! I should have liked to see him too , that I should , said Cinderlad , who was as usual sitting by the chimney among the cinders . 
Well , well , then I will go all alone by myself , said Cinderlad . 
When they had tired out their horses , so that they could do no more , they again had to stop altogether . 
But nothing was to be seen of him . 
Oh , indeed ! He was a little brighter than the ashes that you sit grubbing among , you dirty black creature ! said the brothers . 
On the third day everything went just as on the former days . 
At last , after a long time , came a knight riding upon a horse that was such a fine one , its equal had never yet been seen . 
He was a fine fellow , that was ! Such another splendid knight is not to be found on earth ! said the brothers . 
Oh , how I should have liked to see him too ! said Cinderlad . 
Well , he shone nearly as brightly as the coal heaps that thou art always lying raking among , dirty black creature that thou art ! said the brothers . 
They all went in turn , first princes , and then knights , but none of them had a golden apple . 
But somebody must have it , said the King , for with our own eyes we all saw a man ride up and take it . 
So he commanded that everyone in the kingdom should come to the palace , and see if he could show the apple . 
And one after the other they all came , but no one had the golden apple , and after a long , long time Cinderlad's two brothers came likewise . 
They were the last of all , so the King inquired of them if there was no one else in the kingdom left to come . 
Oh ! yes , we have a brother , said the two , but he never got the golden apple ! He never left the cinder heap on any of the three days . 
Never mind that , said the King as everyone else has come to the palace , let him come too . 
So Cinderlad was forced to go to the King's palace . 
Hast thou the golden apple ? asked the King . 
Thou shalt have my daughter , and the half of my kingdom , and thou hast well earned both ! said the King . 
THE STORY OF PRINCE AHMED AND THE FAIRY PARIBANOU THERE was a sultan , who had three sons and a niece . 
The eldest of the Princes was called Houssain , the second Ali , the youngest Ahmed , and the Princess , his niece , Nouronnihar . 
The Princess Nouronnihar was the daughter of the younger brother of the Sultan , who died , and left the Princess very young . 
But when he perceived that the three Princes , his sons , loved her passionately , he thought more seriously on that affair . 
He was very much concerned the difficulty he foresaw was to make them agree , and that the two youngest should consent to yield her up to their elder brother . 
As the three Princes were always submissive and obedient to the Sultan's will , and each flattered himself fortune might prove favorable to him , they all consented to it . 
They went the first day's journey together , and lay all at an inn , where the road was divided into three different tracts . 
The next morning by break of day , after they had embraced and wished each other good success , they mounted their horses and took each a different road . 
Prince Houssain , the eldest brother , arrived at Bisnagar , the capital of the kingdom of that name , and the residence of its king . 
Prince Houssain could not view this division without admiration . 
It was large , and divided into several streets , all vaulted and shaded from the sun , and yet very light too . 
Certainly , answered Prince Houssain , it must have something very extraordinary in it , which I know nothing of . 
If the tapestry , said he to the crier , has the virtue you assign it , I shall not think forty purses too much , but shall make you a present besides . 
In short , he looked upon it as an impossible thing for the Princes his younger brothers to meet with anything to be compared with it . 
Here he passed for a jeweler . 
mad ? If he is not , I am very much deceived . 
And if he cries the ivory perspective glass at thirty purses it must be worth as much or more , on some account or other . 
He will come by presently , and we will call him , and you shall be satisfied in the meantime sit down on my sofa , and rest yourself . 
Prince Ali accepted the merchant's obliging offer , and presently afterward the crier passed by . 
I should be very much amazed myself if I did not know you . 
The crier , addressing himself to Prince Ali , said Sir , you are not the only person that takes me for a madman on account of this perspective glass . 
He therefore took the crier with him to the khan where he lodged , and counted him out the money , and received the perspective glass . 
You will find several of them will tell you they had not been alive this day if they had not made use of this excellent remedy . 
Upon which Prince Ahmed told the crier he would give him forty purses if he cured the sick person . 
When the Princes met they showed each other their treasures , and immediately saw through the glass that the Princess was dying . 
They then sat down on the carpet , wished themselves with her , and were there in a moment . 
While the Princess was dressing the Princes went to throw themselves at the Sultan their father's feet , and pay their respects to him . 
But when they came before him they found he had been informed of their arrival by the chief of the Princess's eunuchs , and by what means the Princess had been perfectly cured . 
Your perspective glass , Prince Ali , informed you and your brothers that you were like to lose the Princess your cousin , and there you must own a great obligation . 
You must also grant that that knowledge would have been of no service without the artificial apple and the tapestry . 
Go and get each of you a bow and arrow , and repair to the great plain , where they exercise horses . 
I'll soon come to you , and declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to him that shoots the farthest . 
The three Princes had nothing to say against the decision of the Sultan . 
Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence . 
In short , his grief was so violent and insupportable that he left the Court , and renounced all right of succession to the crown , to turn hermit . 
Prince Ahmed , too , did not come to Prince Ali's and the Princess Nouronnihar's wedding any more than his brother Houssain , but did not renounce the world as he had done . 
There must be some mystery in this , said he to himself again , and it may be advantageous to me . 
Perhaps fortune , to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought the greatest happiness , may have reserved a greater blessing for my comfort . 
However , thrusting against it , it opened , and discovered an easy descent , but no steps , which he walked down with his arrow in his hand . 
After these words the lady led Prince Ahmed into the hall . 
You are undoubtedly sensible that your religion teaches you to believe that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men . 
I am the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished genies , and my name is Paribanou . 
Pardon in me the boldness which inspires me to ask this favor , and don't refuse to admit me into your Court , a prince who is entirely devoted to you . 
Then , answered the Fairy , you are my husband , and I am your wife . 
Some of the Fairy's women , who came into the hall with them , and guessed her intentions , went immediately out , and returned presently with some excellent meats and wines . 
Night draws near , and it will be time to go to supper . 
A large side table was set out with all sorts of gold plate , so finely wrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight of the gold . 
The wedding feast was continued the next day , or , rather , the days following the celebration were a continual feast . 
Prince , said she , go when you please . 
But first , don't take it amiss that I give you some advice how you shall behave yourself where you are going . 
First , I don't think it proper for you to tell the Sultan your father of our marriage , nor of my quality , nor the place where you have been . 
She appointed twenty gentlemen , well mounted and equipped , to attend him . 
When all was ready Prince Ahmed took his leave of the Fairy , embraced her , and renewed his promise to return soon . 
As it was not a great way to his father's capital , Prince Ahmed soon arrived there . 
The people , glad to see him again , received him with acclamations of joy , and followed him in crowds to the Sultan's apartment . 
Sir , replied Prince Ahmed , what your Majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke to your Majesty of . 
Prince Ahmed stayed but three days at the Sultan his father's Court , and the fourth returned to the Fairy Paribanou , who did not expect him so soon . 
For several months he constantly paid his visits , always in a richer and finer equipage . 
So he sent for a female magician , who was introduced by a back door into his apartment . 
Go immediately , he said , and follow my son , and watch him so well as to find out where he retires , and bring me word . 
The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak , without taking leave either of the Sultan or any of his Court , according to custom . 
The magician , seeing him coming , followed him with her eyes , till on a sudden she lost sight of him and his attendants . 
Good woman , replied Prince Ahmed , you are not so far from help as you imagine . 
I am ready to assist you , and convey you where you will meet with a speedy cure only get up , and let one of my people take you behind him . 
And when he came into the outward court of the Fairy , without dismounting himself , he sent to tell her he wanted to speak with her . 
But don't be concerned , let what will be devised against you be persuaded that I will deliver you out of all the snares that shall be laid for you . 
Go and pursue your journey . 
This discourse of the Fairy's did not in the least frighten Prince Ahmed . 
Then he went back to his father's palace . 
In the meantime the two women carried the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnished . 
Drink this liquor , said she it is the Water of the Fountain of Lions , and a sovereign remedy against all fevers whatsoever . 
You will find the effect of it in less than an hour's time . 
When she was laid down again the two women covered her up . 
Lie quiet , said she who brought her the china cup , and get a little sleep if you can . 
We'll leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cured when we come again an hour hence . 
The two women came again at the time they said they should , and found the magician up and dressed , and sitting upon the sofa . 
Oh , admirable potion ! she said it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me it would , and I shall be able to prosecute my journey . 
I won't detain you , but perhaps you may not be displeased to see my palace follow my women , and they will show it you . 
I am so sensible of the great importance it is to me that I shall deliberate upon it in council . 
Next day the Sultan did as the magician had advised him , and asked for the pavilion . 
Prince Ahmed never expected that the Sultan his father would have asked such a thing , which at first appeared so difficult , not to say impossible . 
Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of genies and fairies was , he doubted whether it extended so far as to compass such a tent as his father desired . 
But beforehand , I desire you to forgive me , and consider that you yourself have reduced me to this extremity . 
Son , replied the Sultan of the Indies , I should be very sorry if what I ask of you should cause me the displeasure of never seeing you more . 
The Prince went back , and was very sad for fear of offending the Fairy . 
But remember it is the Sultan my father asks this favor . 
Prince , replied the Fairy , smiling , I am sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy as you appeared to me . 
Then the Fairy sent for her treasurer , to whom , when she came , she said Nourgihan which was her name bring me the largest pavilion in my treasury . 
What ! Prince , cried she , do you think I jest with you ? You'll see presently that I am in earnest . 
The Sultan , who was persuaded that there could not be any such thing as such a tent as he asked for , was in a great surprise at the Prince's diligence . 
He took the tent and after he had admired its smallness his amazement was so great that he could not recover himself . 
But the Sultan was not yet satisfied . 
But you must do one thing more for me , which will be every whit as agreeable to me . 
Do me this other important piece of service , and thereby complete the duty of a good son toward a tender father . 
But don't let that frighten you I'll give you means to pass by them without any danger . 
I'll tell you presently the use of it . 
In the third place , you must be provided with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in . 
The lions will be so busy eating they will let you pass by them . 
Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appointed by the Fairy , and followed her directions exactly . 
A great many officers came to attend the Prince while he dismounted his horse , and afterward conducted him into the Sultan's apartment , who was at that time surrounded with his favorites . 
but do me the pleasure , continued he , to inform me by what address , or , rather , by what incredible power , you have been secured . 
Then he informed the Sultan what those directions were , and by the relation of this his expedition let him know how well he had behaved himself . 
Some moments after the Fairy said to Prince Ahmed See , there comes my brother . 
To which she replied He is my husband , brother . 
His name is Ahmed he is son to the Sultan of the Indies . 
The Sultan , his father , replied Paribanou , has a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan's Court . 
He needs but lead me the way I'll follow him . 
The next morning , after Schaibar had been informed of the affair , he and Prince Ahmed set out for the Sultan's Court . 
Here likewise the ushers , at the approach of Schaibar , abandoned their posts , and gave them free admittance . 
Let the magician be brought to me presently . 
Then all that were there present made the air echo again with the repeated acclamations of Long life to Sultan Ahmed and immediately after he was proclaimed through the whole town . 
In those days there lived on St . 
Michael's Mount , off Cornwall , a huge giant , eighteen feet high and nine feet round his fierce and savage looks were the terror of all who beheld him . 
The giant had done this for many years when Jack resolved to destroy him . 
Jack took a horn , a shovel , a pickaxe , his armor , and a dark lantern , and one winter's evening he went to the mount . 
There he dug a pit twenty two feet deep and twenty broad . 
He covered the top over so as to make it look like solid ground . 
Jack then returned home to cheer his friends with the news . 
Another giant , called Blunderbore , vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power . 
When they were black in the face he slid down the rope and stabbed them to the heart . 
Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore , and went into the castle again . 
He made a strict search through all the rooms , and in one of them found three ladies tied up by the hair of their heads , and almost starved to death . 
He then very politely gave them the keys of the castle , and went further on his journey to Wales . 
As Jack had but little money , he went on as fast as possible . 
At length he came to a handsome house . 
Jack knocked at the door , when there came forth a Welsh giant . 
Jack took off his clothes quickly , but though he was weary he could not go to sleep . 
Say you so ? thought Jack . 
Are these your tricks upon travelers ? But I hope to prove as cunning as you are . 
Then , getting out of bed , he groped about the room , and at last found a large thick billet of wood . 
He laid it in his own place in the bed , and then hid himself in a dark corner of the room . 
Early in the morning Jack put a bold face upon the matter , and walked into the giant's room to thank him for his lodging . 
The giant wondered more and more at this yet he did not answer a word , but went to bring two great bowls of hasty pudding for their breakfast . 
When breakfast was over he said to the giant Now I will show you a fine trick . 
I can cure all wounds with a touch I could cut off my head in one minute , and the next put it sound again on my shoulders . 
You shall see an example . 
He then took hold of the knife , ripped up the leathern bag , and all the hasty pudding tumbled out upon the floor . 
He traveled over high hills , and on the third day he came to a large and spacious forest through which his road lay . 
Scarcely had he entered the forest when he beheld a monstrous giant dragging along by the hair of their heads a handsome knight and his lady . 
Jack alighted from his horse , and tying him to an oak tree , put on his invisible coat , under which he carried his sword of sharpness . 
Then Jack , setting his foot upon his neck , plunged his sword into the giant's body , when the monster gave a groan and expired . 
The knight and his lady thanked Jack for their deliverance , and invited him to their house , to receive a proper reward for his services . 
No , said Jack , I cannot be easy till I find out this monster's habitation . 
On this the giant seized his club and laid about him most unmercifully . 
When Jack was seated the hermit thus addressed him My son , on the top of this mountain is an enchanted castle , kept by the giant Galligantus and a vile magician . 
I lament the fate of a duke's daughter , whom they seized as she was walking in her father's garden , and brought hither transformed into a deer . 
On the castle gate he found a golden trumpet , under which were written these lines Whoever can this trumpet blow Shall cause the giant's overthrow . 
As soon as Jack had read this he seized the trumpet and blew a shrill blast , which made the gates fly open and the very castle itself tremble . 
The giant and the conjurer now knew that their wicked course was at an end , and they stood biting their thumbs and shaking with fear . 
The castle vanished away like smoke , and the head of the giant Galligantus was then sent to King Arthur . 
The knights and ladies rested that night at the old man's hermitage , and next day they set out for the Court . 
Jack then went up to the King , and gave his Majesty an account of all his fierce battles . 
Jack's fame had now spread through the whole country , and at the King's desire the duke gave him his daughter in marriage , to the joy of all his kingdom . 
After this the King gave him a large estate , on which he and his lady lived the rest of their days in joy and contentment . 
THE BLACK BULL OF NORROWAY And many a hunting song they sung , And song of game and glee Then tuned to plaintive strains their tongue , Of Scotland's luve and lee . 
To wilder measures next they turn The Black , Black Bull of Norroway ! Sudden the tapers cease to burn , The minstrels cease to play . 
The Cout of Keeldar , by J. Leyden . 
IN Norroway , langsyne , there lived a certain lady , and she had three dochters . 
The auldest o' them said to her mither Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I'm gaun awa' to seek my fortune . 
Her mither did sae and the dochter gaed awa' to an auld witch washerwife and telled her purpose . 
The auld wife bade her stay that day , and gang and look out o' her back door , and see what she could see . 
She saw nocht the first day . 
The second day she did the same , and saw nocht . 
On the third day she looked again , and saw a coach and six coming along the road . 
She ran in and telled the auld wife what she saw . 
Aweel , quo' the auld wife , yon's for you . 
Sae they took her into the coach , and galloped aff . 
The second dochter next says to her mither Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , fur I'm gaun awa' to seek my fortune . 
Her mither did sae and awa' she gaed to the auld wife , as her sister had dune . 
On the third day she looked out o' the back door , and saw a coach and four coming along the road . 
Aweel , quo' the auld wife , yon's for you . 
Sae they took her in , and aff they set . 
The third dochter says to her mither Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I'm gaun awa' to seek my fortune . 
Her mither did sae and awa' she gaed to the auld witch wife . 
She bade her look out o' her back door , and see what she could see . 
She did sae and when she came back said she saw nocht . 
The second day she did the same , and saw nocht . 
The third day she looked again , and on coming back said to the auld wife she saw nocht but a muckle Black Bull coming roaring alang the road . 
Aweel , quo' the auld wife , yon's for you . 
On hearing this she was next to distracted wi' grief and terror but she was lifted up and set on his back , and awa' they went . 
Aye they traveled , and on they traveled , till the lady grew faint wi' hunger . 
Eat out o' my right lug , says the Black Bull , and drink out o' my left lug , and set by your leavings . 
Sae she did as he said , and was wonderfully refreshed . 
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they came in sight o' a very big and bonny castle . 
Yonder we maun be this night , quo' the bull for my auld brither lives yonder and presently they were at the place . 
They lifted her aff his back , and took her in , and sent him away to a park for the night . 
Says the bull till her Yonder we maun be the night , for my second brither lives yonder and they were at the place directly . 
They lifted her down and took her in , and sent the bull to the field for the night . 
Again she was lifted and set on his back , and awa' they went . 
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they came in sight o' the far biggest castle , and far farthest aff , they had yet seen . 
We maun be yonder the night , says the bull , for my young brither lives yonder and they were there directly . 
They lifted her down , took her in , and sent the bull to the field for the night . 
Presently they brought hame the bull , set the lady on his back , and awa' they went . 
And aye they gaed , and on they rade , till they came to a dark and ugsome glen , where they stopped , and the lady lighted down . 
Says the bull to her Here ye maun stay till I gang and fight the deil . 
Ye maun seat yoursel' on that stane , and move neither hand nor fit till I come back , else I'll never find ye again . 
And if everything round about ye turns blue I hae beated the deil but should a' things turn red he'll hae conquered me . 
She set hersel' down on the stane , and by and by a' round her turned blue . 
O'ercome wi' joy , she lifted the ae fit and crossed it owre the ither , sae glad was she that her companion was victorious . 
The bull returned and sought for but never could find her . 
Lang she sat , and aye she grat , till she wearied . 
At last she rase and gaed awa' , she kedna whaur till . 
On she wandered till she came to a great hill o' glass , that she tried a' she could to climb , bat wasna able . 
At seven years' end she got her iron shoon , clamb the glassy hill , and chanced to come to the auld washerwife's habitation . 
There she was telled of a gallant young knight that had given in some bluidy sarks to wash , and whaever washed thae sarks was to be his wife . 
So the knight and the eldest dochter were to be married , and the stranger damosel was distracted at the thought of it , for she was deeply in love wi' him . 
So she bethought her of her apple , and breaking it , found it filled with gold and precious jewelry , the richest she had ever seen . 
So the lady consented but meanwhile the auld wife had prepared a sleeping drink , and given it to the knight , wha drank it , and never wakened till next morning . 
She then brak the pear , and found it filled wi' jewelry far richer than the contents o' the apple . 
Wi' thae jewels she bargained for permission to be a second night in the young knight's chamber but the auld wife gied him anither sleeping drink , and he again sleepit till morning . 
A' night she kept sighing and singing as before Seven lang years I served for thee , c . 
Still he sleepit , and she nearly lost hope a'thegither . 
But that day when he was out at the hunting , somebody asked him what noise and moaning was yon they heard all last night in his bedchamber . 
He said he heardna ony noise . 
But they assured him there was sae and he resolved to keep waking that night to try what he could hear . 
That being the third night , and the damosel being between hope and despair , she brak her plum , and it held far the richest jewelry of the three . 
And when she gaed awa' for some honey to sweeten it wi' , he poured out the drink , and sae made the auld wife think he had drunk it . 
And she telled him a' that had befa'en her , and he telled her a' that had happened to him . 
And he caused the auld washerwife and her dochter to be burned . 
And they were married , and he and she are living happy till this day , for aught I ken . 
Chambers , Popular Traditions of Scotland . 
THE RED ETIN THERE were ance twa widows that lived on a small bit o' ground , which they rented from a farmer . 
So the young man set out to seek his fortune . 
It's said there's ane predestinate To be his mortal foe But that man is yet unborn And lang may it be so . 
This old man also told him to beware of the next beasts that he should meet , for they were of a very different kind from any he had yet seen . 
And he gaed into the castle for shelter , and there he saw an auld wife sitting beside the kitchen fire . 
He thought , if he could put over the night , he might get away in the morning without meeting wi' the beasts , and so escape . 
Kitchen , that is , season . 
The monster soon found the poor young man , and pulled him from his hole . 
And when he had got him out he told him that if he could answer him three questions his life should be spared . 
On the morning after this happened the younger brither took out the knife to look at it , and he was grieved to find it a' brown wi' rust . 
The can being broken , he brought hame as little water as the other had done , and the cake was as little . 
So his mother gave him a can to go to the well and bring home water , that she might bake him a cake for his journey . 
He beats her , he binds her , He lays her on a band And every day he dings her With a bright silver wand . 
When he came to the place where the monstrous beasts were standing , he did not stop nor run away , but went boldly through among them . 
One came up roaring with open mouth to devour him , when he struck it with his wand , and laid it in an instant dead at his feet . 
He soon came to the Etin's castle , where he knocked , and was admitted . 
The auld woman that sat by the fire warned him of the terrible Etin , and what had been the fate of the twa brithers but he was not to be daunted . 
He quickly espied the young man , and bade him come forth on the floor . 
And then he put the three questions to him , but the young man had been told everything by the good fairy , so he was able to answer all the questions . 
When the Etin found this he knew that his power was gone . 
The young man then took up the axe and hewed off the monster's three heads . 
And the hale o' the prisoners were overjoyed at their deliverance , which they all acknowledged to be owing to the prudent young man . 
Next day they a' set out for the King's Court , and a gallant company they made . 
Chambers , Popular Traditions of Scotland . 
