Then she went down to the front door for the damp , twisted roll of the Sunday morning's paper , and came back and rang the breakfast bell for the second time . 
As the family still hesitated to appear , she went to the bay window at the end of the room , and stood there for a moment looking out . 
The Bessemers lived upon the Washington Street hill , almost at its very summit , in a flat in the third story of the building . 
The contractor had been clever enough to reverse the position of kitchen and dining room , so that the latter room was at the rear of the house . 
For some time Victorine stood looking down at the great expanse of land and sea , then faced about with an impatient exclamation . 
On Sundays all the week day regime of the family was deranged , and breakfast was a movable feast , to be had any time after seven or before half past nine . 
He was a little round man . 
He wore a skull cap to keep his bald spot warm , and read his paper through a reading glass . 
The expression of his face , wrinkled and bearded , the eyes shadowed by enormous gray eyebrows , was that of an amiable gorilla . 
Bessemer was one of those men who seem entirely disassociated from their families . 
Only on rare and intense occasions did his paternal spirit or instincts assert themselves . 
At table he talked but little . 
Though devotedly fond of his eldest daughter , she was a puzzle and a stranger to him . 
His interests and hers were absolutely dissimilar . 
The children he seldom spoke to but to reprove while Howard , the son , the ten year old and terrible infant of the household , he always referred to as that boy . 
He was an abstracted , self centred old man , with but two hobbies homoeopathy and the mechanism of clocks . 
I think I'll wind my watch . 
No , I've forgotten my watch . 
Watermelon this morning , eh ? Where's a knife ? I'll have a little salt . 
Victorine's forgot the spoons ha , here's a spoon ! No , it's a knife I want . 
The son and heir , Howard , was very much a boy . 
His little sister was much more tractable . 
She had been christened Alberta , and was called Snooky . 
When Snooky and Howard had seated themselves , but one chair at the end of the breakfast table , opposite Mr. Bessemer remained vacant . 
It was significant of Mr. Bessemer's relations with his family that Victorine did not address her question to him . 
Yes , yes , she's coming , said both the children , speaking together and Howard added Here she comes now . 
Even in San Francisco , where all women are more or less beautiful , Travis passed for a beautiful girl . 
She was young , but tall as most men , and solidly , almost heavily built . 
Her shoulders were broad , her chest was deep , her neck round and firm . 
One felt that here was stamina , good physical force , and fine animal vigor . 
Her arms were large , her wrists were large , and her fingers did not taper . 
Her hair was of a brown so light as to be almost yellow . 
In fact , it would be safer to call it yellow from the start not golden nor flaxen , but plain , honest yellow . 
The skin of her face was clean and white , except where it flushed to a most charming pink upon her smooth , cool cheeks . 
Her lips were full and red , her chin very round and a little salient . 
And nothing could have been more delightful than these sloe brown , glinting little eyes of hers set off by her white skin and yellow hair . 
She impressed one as being a very normal girl nothing morbid about her , nothing nervous or false or overwrought . 
You did not expect to find her introspective . 
You felt sure that her mental life was not at all the result of thoughts and reflections germinating from within , but rather of impressions and sensations that came to her from without . 
There was nothing extraordinary about Travis . 
She never had her vagaries , was not moody depressed one day and exalted the next . 
She was just a good , sweet , natural , healthy minded , healthy bodied girl , honest , strong , self reliant , and good tempered . 
Though she was not yet dressed for church , there was style in her to the pointed tips of her patent leather slippers . 
She wore a heavy black overskirt that rustled in delicious fashion over the colored silk skirt beneath , and a white shirt waist , striped black , and starched to a rattling stiffness . 
Bernard a chic little idea which was all her own , and of which she was very proud . 
She was nineteen years old . 
She sat down to breakfast and ate heartily , though with her attention divided between Howard who was atrociously bad , as usual of a Sunday morning and her father's plate . 
Mr. Bessemer was as like as not to leave the table without any breakfast at all unless his fruit , chops , and coffee were actually thrust under his nose . 
Papum , she called , speaking clear and distinct , as though to the deaf , there's your coffee there at your elbow be careful , you'll tip it over . 
Victorine , push his cup further on the table . 
Now I'll take a roll , he continued , in a monotonous murmur . 
Where are the rolls ? Here they are . 
Hot rolls are bad for my digestion I ought to eat bread . 
I think I eat too much . 
Where's my place in the paper ? always lose my place in the paper . 
Clever editorials this fellow Eastman writes , unbiassed by party prejudice unbiassed unbiassed . 
His voice died to a whisper . 
The breakfast proceeded , Travis supervising everything that went forward , even giving directions to Victorine as to the hour for serving dinner . 
It was while she was talking to Victorine as to this matter that Snooky began to whine . 
Stop ! And tell Maggie , pursued Travis , to fricassee her chicken , and not to have it too well done Sto o op ! whined Snooky again . 
And leave the heart out for Papum . 
He likes the heart Sto o op ! Unbiassed by prejudice , murmured Mr. Bessemer , vigorous and to the point . 
Pa , make Howard stop ! Howard ! exclaimed Travis what is it now ? Howard's squirting watermelon seeds at me , whined Snooky , and Pa won't make him stop . 
Oh , I didn't so ! vociferated Howard . 
I only held one between my fingers , and it just kind of shot out . 
You'll come upstairs with me in just five minutes , announced Travis , and get ready for Sunday school . 
Howard knew that his older sister's decisions were as the laws of the Persians , and found means to finish his breakfast within the specified time , though not without protest . 
Once upstairs , however , the usual Sunday morning drama of despatching him to Sunday school in presentable condition was enacted . 
At every moment his voice could be heard uplifted in shrill expostulation and debate . 
Not for a moment did Travis lose her temper with him . 
But very well , she declared at length , the next time she saw that little Miner girl she would tell her that he had said she was his beau heart . 
NOW would he hold still while she brushed his hair ? At a few minutes before eleven Travis and her father went to church . 
They were Episcopalians , and for time out of mind had rented a half pew in the church of their denomination on California Street , not far from Chinatown . 
By noon the family reassembled . 
At five Travis bestirred herself . 
It was Victorine's afternoon out . 
in the matter of preparing the Sunday evening tea . 
Tea was had at half past five . 
Never in the history of the family had its menu varied cold ham , potato salad , pork and beans , canned fruit , chocolate , and the inevitable pitcher of ice water . 
In the absence of Victorine , Maggie waited on the table , very uncomfortable in her one good dress and stiff white apron . 
She stood off from the table , making awkward dabs at it from time to time . 
In her excess of deference she developed a clumsiness that was beyond all expression . 
She passed the plates upon the wrong side , and remembered herself with a broken apology at inopportune moments . 
She dropped a spoon , she spilled the ice water . 
She handled the delft cups and platters with an exaggerated solicitude , as though they were glass bombs . 
Suddenly there came a prolonged trilling of the electric bell , and Howard flashed a grin at Travis . 
Snooky jumped up and pushed back , crying out I'll go ! I'll go ! Mr. Bessemer glanced nervously at Travis . 
That's Mr. Rivers , isn't it , daughter ? Travis smiled . 
Well , I think I'll I think I'd better he began . 
No , said Travis , I don't want you to , Papum you sit right where you are . 
How absurd ! The old man dropped obediently back into his seat . 
That's all right , Maggie , said Travis as the cook reappeared from the pantry . 
Huh ! exclaimed Howard , his grin widening . 
Huh ! And remember one thing , Howard , remarked Travis calmly , don't you ever again ask Mr. Rivers for a nickel to put in your bank . 
Did that boy do that ? he inquired sharply of Travis . 
Well , well , he won't do it again , said Travis soothingly . 
The old man glared for an instant at Howard , who shifted uneasily in his seat . 
But meanwhile Snooky had clambered down to the outside door , and before anything further could be said young Rivers came into the dining room . 
His people had come West in the early eighties , just in time to bury the father in alien soil . 
Condy was an only child . 
For Condy had developed a taste and talent in the matter of writing . 
Short stories were his mania . 
He had begun by an inoculation of the Kipling virus , had suffered an almost fatal attack of Harding Davis , and had even been affected by Maupassant . 
Much of his work on the Sunday supplement of The Times was of the hack order special articles , write ups , and interviews . 
Unlike most writing folk , he dressed himself according to prevailing custom . 
But Condy overdid the matter . 
His scarfs and cravats were too bright , his colored shirt bosoms were too broadly barred , his waistcoats too extreme . 
Even Travis , as she rose to his abrupt entrance ? told herself that of a Sunday evening a pink shirt and scarlet tie were a combination hardly to be forgiven . 
My watch this beastly watch of mine I can't imagine how I came to be so late . 
You did quite right not to wait . 
Heavens and earth ! didn't you EXPECT me ? he cried . 
I thought you said I thought I must have forgotten I must have got it mixed up somehow . 
What a hideous mistake , what a blunder ! What a fool I am ! He dropped into a chair against the wall and mopped his forehead with a blue bordered handkerchief . 
Well , what difference does it make , Condy ? said Travis quietly . 
I'll put another place for you . 
No , no ! he vociferated , jumping up . 
Condy meanwhile covered himself with opprobrium . 
And all this trouble I always make trouble everywhere I go . 
Always a round man in a square hole , or a square man in a round hole . 
Hello ! he exclaimed suddenly , where did you get that clock ? Where did you get that clock ? That's new to me . 
Where did that come from ? That cuckoo clock ? inquired Travis , with a stare . 
But already Condy had forgotten or lost interest in the clock . 
Is that so ? is that so ? he murmured absent mindedly , seating himself at the table . 
Mr. Bessemer was murmuring That clock's a little fast . 
I can not make that clock keep time . 
Victorine has lost the key . 
I have to wind it with a monkey wrench . 
Now I'll try some more beans . 
Maggie has put in too much pepper . 
I'll have to have a new key made to morrow . 
Is that so ? answered Condy Rivers , bewildered , wishing to be polite , yet unable to follow the old man's mutterings . 
He's not talking to you , remarked Travis , without lowering her voice . 
You know how Papum goes on . 
He won't hear a word you say . 
Well , I read your story in this morning's 'Times . 
A few moments later , while Travers and Condy were still discussing this story , Mr. Bessemer rose . 
Well , Mr. Rivers , he announced , I guess I'll say good night . 
Yes , take her with you , Papum , said Travis . 
She'll go to sleep on the lounge here if you don't . 
Howard , have you got your lessons for to morrow ? It appeared that he had not . 
Snooky whined to stay up a little longer , but at last consented to go with her father . 
They all bade Condy good night and took themselves away , Howard lingering a moment in the door in the hope of the nickel he dared not ask for . 
Maggie reappeared to clear away the table . 
Let's go in the parlor , suggested Travis , rising . 
Travis preceded Condy , and turned up one of the burners in colored globe of the little brass chandelier . 
The parlor was a small affair , peopled by a family of chairs and sofas robed in white drugget . 
A gold and white effect had been striven for throughout the room . 
The walls had been tinted instead of papered , and bunches of hand painted pink flowers tied up with blue ribbons straggled from one corner of the ceiling . 
Across one angle of the room straddled a brass easel upholding a crayon portrait of Travis at the age of nine , enlarged from a photograph . 
A yellow drape ornamented one corner of the frame , while another drape of blue depended from one end of the mantelpiece . 
The piano , upon which nobody ever played , balanced the easel in an opposite corner . 
But at the right of the fireplace , and balancing the tuft of pampa grass to the left , was an inverted section of a sewer pipe painted blue and decorated with daisies . 
Into it was thrust a sheaf of cat tails , gilded , and tied with a pink ribbon . 
Travis dropped upon the shrouded sofa , and Condy set himself carefully down on one of the frail chairs with its spindling golden legs , and they began to talk . 
But in ten minutes they had exhausted it . 
An engagement of a girl known to both of them had just been announced . 
Travis' condemnation of this occupied another five or ten minutes and so what with this and with that they reached nine o'clock . 
Then decidedly the evening began to drag . 
It was too early to go . 
The breaks became more numerous and lasted longer . 
Condy began to wonder if he was boring her . 
No sooner had the suspicion entered his head than it hardened into a certainty , and at once what little fluency and freshness he yet retained forsook him on the spot . 
What made matters worse was his recollection of other evenings that of late he had failed in precisely the same manner . 
Even while he struggled to save the situation Condy was wondering if they two were talked out if they had lost charm for each other . 
during the season Rivers took her to the theatres Monday nights , and called regularly Wednesdays and Sundays . 
Then they met at dances , and managed to be invited to the same houses for teas and dinners . 
He had never been NEAR to her , after all . 
They were as far apart as when they had first met . 
And yet he knew enough of her to know that she was worth while . 
He had had experience all the experience he wanted with other older women and girls of society . 
They were sophisticated , they were all a little tired , they had run the gamut of amusements in a word , they were jaded . 
But Travis , this girl of nineteen , who was not yet even a debutante , had been fresh and unspoiled , had been new and strong and young . 
Of course , you may call it what you like . 
He was nothing more nor less than intoxicated yes , drunk . 
Hah ! who what wh what are you talking about ? gasped Condy sitting bolt upright . 
Jack Carter , answered Travis . 
shaking her head at him helplessly , he hasn't been listening to a word . 
I'm talking about Jack Carter and the 'Saturday Evening' last night . 
No , no , I haven't heard . 
Forgive me I was thinking thinking of something else . 
You know , she went on you know what the 'Saturday Evening' is . 
Plenty of the girls who are not 'out' belong , and a good many of last year's debutantes come , as well as the older girls of three or four seasons' standing . 
You could call it representative couldn't you ? Well , they always serve punch and you know yourself that you have seen men there who have taken more than they should . 
Yes , yes , admitted Condy . 
I know Carter and the two Catlin boys always do . 
It gets pretty bad sometimes , doesn't it ? she said . 
It does , it does and it's shameful . 
But most of the girls MOST of them don't seem to mind . 
Miss Bessemer stiffened a bit . 
There are one or two girls that do , she said quietly . 
Frank Catlin had the decency to go home last night , she continued and his brother wasn't any worse than usual . 
But Jack Carter must have been drinking before he came . 
He was very bad indeed as bad , she said between her teeth , as he could be and yet walk straight . 
As you say , most of the girls don't mind . 
Of course , Carter was furious . 
He was sober enough to think he had been insulted and what do you suppose he did ? What ? what ? exclaimed Condy , breathless , leaning toward her . 
Went about the halls and dressing rooms circulating some dirty little lie about Laurie . 
Actually trying to to Travis hesitated to make a scandal about her . 
Condy bounded in his seat . 
Beast , cad , swine ! he exclaimed . 
I didn't think , said Travis , that Carter would so much as dare to ask me to dance with him Did he ? did did Wait , she interrupted . 
So I wasn't at all prepared for what happened . 
During the german , before I knew it , there he was in front of me . 
It was a break , and he wanted it . 
I hadn't time to think . 
The only idea I had was that if I refused him he might tell some dirty little lie about me . 
I was all confused mixed up . 
I felt just as though it were a snake that I had to humor to get rid of . 
I gave him the break . 
Well , now , let's see , he began , speaking rapidly , his hands twisting and untwisting till the knuckles cracked . 
You leave it to me . 
He's going to be at a stag dinner where I am invited to morrow night , and I I No , you won't , Condy , said Travis placidly . 
You'll pay no attention to it , and I'll tell you why . 
Suppose you should make a scene with Mr. Carter I don't know how men settle these things . 
By that time Mr. Carter will have told his side of the story and invented another dirty little lie , and I'm the one who suffers the most in the end . 
And remember , Condy , that I haven't any mother in such an affair , not even an older sister . 
No , we'll just let the matter drop . 
It would be more dignified , anyhow . 
Only I have made up my mind what I am going to do . 
What's that ? I'm not coming out . 
It's not Miss Bessemer stiffened again that I'm afraid of Jack Carter and his dirty stories I simply don't want to know the kind of people who have made Jack Carter possible . 
And as for having a good time , I'll find my amusements somewhere else . 
I'll ride a wheel , take long walks , study something . 
But as for leading the life of a society girl no ! And whether I have a good time or not , I'll keep my own self respect . 
At least I'll never have to dance with a drunken man . 
I won't have to humiliate myself like that a second time . 
But I presume you will still continue to go out somewhere , protested Condy Rivers . 
I have thought it all over , and I've talked about it with Papum . 
There's no half way about it . 
The only way to stop is to stop short . 
Just this afternoon I've regretted three functions for next week , and I shall resign from the 'Saturday Evening . 
Oh , it's not the Jack Carter affair alone ! she exclaimed the whole thing tires me . 
Mind , Condy , she exclaimed , I'm not going to break with it because I have any 'purpose in life , or that sort of thing . 
I want to have a good time , and I'm going to see if I can't have it in my own way . 
If the kind of thing that makes Jack Carter possible is conventionality , then I'm done with conventionality for good . 
I am going to try , from this time on , to be just as true to myself as I can be . 
See , Condy ? You're fine , murmured Condy breathless . 
You're fine as gold , Travis , and I I love you all the better for it . 
Ah , NOW ! exclaimed Travis , with a brusque movement , there's mother thing we must talk about . 
No more foolishness between us . 
We've had a jolly little flirtation , I know , and it's been good fun while it lasted . 
I know you like me , and you know that I like you but as for loving each other , you know we don't . 
Yes , you say that you love me and that I'm the only girl . 
That's part of the game . 
I can play it her little eyes began to dance quite as well as you . 
But I tell you that I DO love you , protested Condy , trying to make the words ring true . 
Tell me , do you honestly love me ? You know what I mean when I say 'love . 
Do you love me ? No , I don't ! he exclaimed blankly , as though he had just discovered the fact . 
There ! declared Travis and I don't love you . 
They both began to laugh . 
Now , added Travis , we don't need to have the burden and trouble of keeping up the pretences any more . 
We understand each other , don't we ? This is queer enough , said Condy drolly . 
But isn't it an improvement ? Condy scoured his head . 
Tell me the truth , she insisted YOU be sincere . 
I do believe it is . 
Why why Travis by Jingo ! Travis , I think I'm going to like you better than ever now . 
She put out her hand . 
That's an agreement , then . 
Condy took her hand in his . 
Yes , it's an agreement . 
But when , as had been his custom , he made as though to kiss her hand , Travis drew it quickly away . 
No ! no ! she said firmly , smiling for all that no more foolishness . 
No , sire , quoted Travis , trying not to laugh , it is a revolution . 
Chapter III Although Monday was practically a holiday for the Sunday supplement staff of The Times , Condy Rivers made a point to get down to the office betimes the next morning . 
Well , he muttered , maybe it doesn't make so much difference , after all . 
She was a corking fine girl , but might as well admit it the play is played out . 
Of course , I don't love her any more whan she loves me . 
I'll see less and less of her now . 
It's inevitable , and after a while we'll hardly even meet . 
In a way , it's a pity but , of course , one has to be sensible about these things . 
Well , this whaleback now . 
He rang up the Chamber of Commerce , and found out that the City of Everett , which was the whaleback's name , was at the Mission Street wharf . 
This made it possible for him to write the article in two ways . 
The former was the short and easy method . 
The latter was more troublesome , but would result in a far more interesting article . 
Condy debated the subject a few minutes , then decided to go down to the wharf . 
San Francisco's water front was always interesting , and he might get hold of a photograph of the whaleback . 
All at once the idea of the article struck him , the certain underlying notion that would give importance and weight to the mere details and descriptions . 
Condy's enthusiasm flared up in an instant . 
Then it occurred to him that he had forgotten to call at his club that morning for his mail , as was his custom , on the way to the office . 
He looked at his watch . 
It was early yet , and his club was but two blocks' distance . 
He decided that he would get his letters at the club , and read them on the way down to the wharf . 
He was one of the younger members , but was popular and well liked , and on more than one occasion had materially contributed to the fun of the club's low jinks . 
In his box this morning he found one letter that he told himself he must read upon the instant . 
It bore upon the envelope the name of a New York publishing house to whom Condy had sent a collection of his short stories about a month before . 
He took the letter into the round window of the club , overlooking the street , and tore it open excitedly . 
The fact that he had received a letter from the firm without the return of his manuscript seemed a good omen . 
This was what he read Conde Rivers , Esq . 
, Bohemian Club , San Francisco , Cal . 
DEAR SIR We return to you by this mail the manuscript of your stories , which we do not consider as available for publication at the present moment . 
We would say , however , that we find in several of them indications of a quite unusual order of merit . 
The best selling book just now is the short novel say thirty thousand words of action and adventure . 
Very respectfully , THE CENTENNIAL CO . 
Condy shoved the letter into his pocket and collapsed limply into his chair . 
What's the good of trying to do anything anyhow ! he muttered , looking gloomily down into the street . 
My level is just the hack work of a local Sunday supplement , and I am a fool to think of anything else . 
His enthusiasm in the matter of the City of Everett was cold and dead in a moment . 
He could see no possibilities in the subject whatever . 
His idea of a few minutes previous seemed ridiculous and overwrought . 
He would go back to the office and grind out his copy from the exchange editor's clipping . 
Just then his eye was caught by a familiar figure in trim , well fitting black halted on the opposite corner waiting for the passage of a cable car . 
Come , come ! she said as he pretended to jostle against her on the curbstone without noticing her you had best go to work . 
I've just run down for half an hour to have the head of my banjo tightened . 
Huh ! no , it all goes for theatre tickets , and flowers , and boxes of candy for a certain girl I know . 
But and he glared at her significantly no more foolishness . 
What are you 'on' this morning , Condy ? Condy told her as they started to walk toward Kearney Street . 
Splendid ! splendid ! no reason why you shouldn't ! he exclaimed . 
And within fifteen minutes the two were treading the wharves and quays of the city's water front . 
In the distance the mass of rigging resolved itself into a solid gray blur against the sky . 
Sailors and stevedores swarmed them like vermin . 
Trucks rolled along the wharves like peals of ordnance , the horse hoofs beating the boards like heavy drum taps . 
Travis was delighted , her little brown eyes snapping , her cheeks flushing , as she drank in the scene . 
Travis and Condy edged their way among piles of wheat bags , dodging drays and rumbling trucks , and finally brought up at the after gangplank , where a sailor halted them . 
Condy exhibited his reporter's badge . 
I represent 'The Times , he said , with profound solemnity , and I want to see the officer in charge . 
The sailor fell back upon the instant . 
Power of the press , whispered Condy to Travis as the two gained the deck . 
A second sailor directed them to the mate , whom they found in the chart room , engaged , singularly enough , in trimming the leaves of a scraggly geranium . 
Condy explained his mission with flattering allusions to the whaleback and the novelty of the construction . 
One , an old daguerreotype , particularly caught her fancy . 
It was the portrait of a very beautiful girl , wearing the old fashioned side curls and high comb of a half century previous . 
Condy and Travis held their breaths in attention . 
There in the cabin of that curious nondescript whaleback they had come suddenly to the edge of a romance a romance that had been lived through before they were born . 
Then Travis said in a low voice , and sweetly She died ? Before I ever set eyes on her , miss . 
That is , MAYBE she died . 
I sometimes think fact is , I really believe she's alive yet , and waiting for me . 
I dunno , he said pulling his beard . 
I don't usually tell that story to strange folk , but you remind me so of her that I guess I will . 
I began life , he said , as a deep sea diver began pretty young , too . 
I first put on the armor when I was twenty , nothing but a lad but I could take the pressure up to seventy pounds even then . 
One of my very first dives was off Trincomalee , on the coast of Ceylon . 
A mail packet had gone down in a squall with all on board . 
Six of the bodies had come up and had been recovered , but the seventh hadn't . 
It was the body of the daughter of the governor of the island , a beautiful young girl of nineteen , whom everybody loved . 
I was sent for to go down and bring the body up . 
Well , I went down . 
The packet lay in a hundred feet of water , and that's a wonder deep dive . 
I had to go down twice . 
The first time I couldn't find anything , though I went all through the berth deck . 
I came up to the wrecking float and reported that I had seen nothing . 
There were a lot of men there belonging to the wrecking gang , and some correspondents of London papers . 
But they would have it that she was below , and had me go down again . 
I did , and this time I found her . 
We say that the drowned who don't come up still have some sort of life of their own way down there in all that green water . 
When I went down the second time , I came across the door of what I thought at first was the linen closet . 
But it turned out to be a little stateroom . 
Her eyes were wide open , and she was looking right at me and smiling . 
It didn't seem terrible or ghastly in the least . 
When I opened the door it set the water in motion , and she got up and dropped the satchel , and came toward me smiling and holding out her arms . 
I stepped back quick and shut the door , and sat down in one of the saloon chairs to fetch my breath , for it had given me a start . 
The next thing to do was to send her up . 
But I began to think . 
She seemed so pretty as she was . 
You see , I was only a lad then , and things like that impress you when you're young . 
Well , I signaled to be hauled up . 
They asked me on the float if I'd seen anything , and I said no . 
That was all there was to the affair . 
They never raised the ship , and in a little while it was all forgotten . 
She's always stayed young and fresh and pretty . 
I never saw her but that once . 
Only afterward I got her picture from a native woman of Trincomalee who was house keeper at the Residency where the governor of the island lived . 
Somehow I never could care for other women after that , and I ain't never married for that reason . 
No , no , of course not ! exclaimed Travis , in a low voice as the old fellow paused . 
Fine , fine oh , fine as gold ! murmured Condy , under his breath . 
Well , said the mate , getting up and rubbing his knee , that's the story . 
Now you know all about that picture . 
Will you have a glass of Madeira , miss ? He got out a bottle of wine bearing the genuine Funchal label and filled three tiny glasses . 
Travis pushed up her veil , and she and Condy rose . 
This is to HER , said Travis gravely . 
Thank you , miss , answered the mate , and the three drank in silence . 
As Travis and Condy were going down the gangplank they met the captain of the whaleback coming up . 
I saw you in there talking to old McPherson , he explained . 
Did you get what you wanted from him ? More , more ! exclaimed Condy . 
My hand in the fire , he told you that yarn about the girl who was drowned off Trincomalee . 
Of course , I knew it . 
The old boy's wits are turned on that subject . 
He WILL have it that the body hasn't decomposed in all this time . 
Good seaman enough , and a first class navigator , but he's soft in that one spot . 
Chapter IV Oh , but the STORY of it ! exclaimed Condy as he and Travis regained the wharf the story of it ! Isn't it a ripper . 
Isn't it a corker ! His leaving her that way , and never caring for any other girl afterward . 
And so original , she commented , quite as enthusiastic as he . 
Original ? why , it's new as paint ! It's it's Travis , I'll make a story out of this that will be copied in every paper between the two oceans . 
And I'll make a bang up article out of the whaleback herself , declared Condy . 
The idea of the article had returned to him , and all his enthusiasm with it . 
And look here , he said , showing her the letter from the Centennial Company . 
They turned down my book , but see what they say . 
Quite an unusual order of merit ! cried Travis . 
Have you an idea for a thirty thousand word novel ? Wouldn't that diver's story do ? No , there's not enough in that for thirty thousand words . 
I haven't any idea at all never wrote a story of adventure never wrote anything longer than six thousand words . 
But I'll keep my eye open for something that will do . 
By the way by Jove ! Travis , where are we ? They looked briskly around them , and the bustling , breezy water front faded from their recollections . 
They were in a world of narrow streets , of galleries and overhanging balconies . 
Craziest structures , riddled and honeycombed with stairways and passages , shut out the sky , though here and there rose a building of extraordinary richness and most elaborate ornamentation . 
A thousand little notes of green and yellow , of vermilion and sky blue , assaulted the eye . 
The air was vibrant with unfamiliar noises . 
From one of the balconies near at hand , though unseen , a gong , a pipe , and some kind of stringed instrument wailed and thundered in unison . 
I hadn't the faintest idea we had come up so far . 
And your lunch ? cried Condy . 
Great heavens ! I never thought . 
It's too late to get any at home . 
Never mind I'll go somewhere and have a cup of tea . 
Why not get a package of Chinese tea , now that you're down here , and take it home with you ? Or drink it here . 
Where ? In one of the restaurants . 
There wouldn't be a soul there at this hour . 
I know they serve tea any time . 
Condy , let's try it . 
Wouldn't it be fun ? Condy smote his thigh . 
Fun ! he vociferated fun ! It is by Jove it would be HEAVENLY ! Wait a moment . 
I'll tell you what we will do . 
We'll go down to Kearney Street , or to the market , and get some crackers to go with it . 
They hurried back to the California market , a few blocks distant , and bought some crackers and a wedge of new cheese . 
First catch your restaurant , said Travis as they turned into Dupont Street with its thronging coolies and swarming , gayly clad children . 
But they had not far to seek . 
Here you are ! suddenly exclaimed Condy , halting in front of a wholesale tea house bearing a sign in Chinese and English . 
As Travis had foretold , it was deserted . 
She clasped her gloved hands gayly , crying Isn't it delightful ! We've the whole place to ourselves . 
The restaurant ran the whole depth of the building , and was finished off at either extremity with a gilded balcony , one overlooking Dupont Street and the other the old Plaza . 
At their backs they had the huge , fantastic screen , brave and fine with its coat of gold . 
On either side of these doors , in deep alcoves , were divans with mattings and head rests for opium smokers . 
A chandelier , all a glitter with tinsel , swung from the centre of the ceiling over a huge round table of mahogany . 
And not a soul was there to disturb them . 
Below them , out there around the old Plaza , the city drummed through its work with a lazy , soothing rumble . 
Nearer at hand , Chinatown sent up the vague murmur of the life of the Orient . 
In the direction of the Mexican quarter , the bell of the cathedral knolled at intervals . 
The sky was without a cloud and the afternoon was warm . 
Condy was inarticulate with the joy of what he called their discovery . 
He got up and sat down . 
He went out into the other room and came back again . 
He dragged up a couple of the marble seated stools to the table . 
He took off his hat , lighted a cigarette , let it go out , lighted it again , and burned his fingers . 
There's the Stevenson memorial ship in the centre , see and right there , where the flagstaff is , General Baker made the funeral oration over the body of Terry . 
Broderick killed him in a duel or was it Terry killed Broderick ? I forget which . 
Anyhow , right opposite , where that pawnshop is , is where the Overland stages used to start in . 
They turned back into the room , and a great , fat Chinaman brought them tea on Condy's order . 
But besides tea , he brought dried almonds , pickled watermelon rinds , candied quince , and China nuts . 
Travis cut the cheese into cubes with Condy's penknife , and arranged the cubes in geometric figures upon the crackers . 
But , Condy , she complained , why in the world did you get so many crackers ? There's hundreds of them here enough to feed a regiment . 
Why didn't you ask me ? Huh ! what ? what ? I don't know . 
What's the matter with the crackers ? You were dickering with the cheese , and the man said , 'How many crackers ? I didn't know . 
I wonder if this green , pasty stuff is good . 
They found that it was , but so sweet that it made their tea taste bitter . 
The watermelon rinds were flat to their Western palates , but the dried almonds were a great success . 
Oh , well , he exclaimed aggrievedly laugh , that's right ! I don't laugh . 
It isn't such fun when you've got 'em yoursel' HULP . 
But sit down , for goodness' sake ! You make me so nervous . 
You can't walk them off . 
Sit down and hold your breath while you count nine . 
Condy , I'm going to take off my gloves and veil . 
What do you think ? Sure , of course and I'll have a cigarette . 
Do you mind if I smoke ? Well , what's that in your hand now ? By Jove , I have been smoking ! I I beg your pardon . 
I'm a regular stable boy . 
What nonsense ! I would have told you before if I'd minded . 
But it's gone out ! he exclaimed . 
As he reached into his pocket for his case , his hand encountered a paper covered volume . 
and he drew it out in some perplexity . 
Now , how in the wide world did that book come in my pocket ? he muttered , frowning . 
What have I been carrying it around for ? I've forgotten . 
What book is it ? Hey ? book ? . 
h'm , he murmured , staring . 
Travis pounded on the table . 
Wake up , Condy , I'm talking to you , she called . 
It's 'Life's Handicap , he answered , with a start but why and but why have I What's it about ? I never heard of it , she declared . 
You never heard of 'Life's Handicap' ? he shouted you never heard you never you mean to say you never heard but here , this won't do . 
Sit right still , and I'll read you one of these yarns before you're another minute older . 
Any one of them open the book at random . 
Here we are 'The Strange Ride of Morrowbie Jukes' and it's a stem winder , too . 
There was one point in the story of Jukes' strange ride that Condy prided himself upon having discovered . 
So far as he knew , all critics had overlooked it . 
It is where Jukes is describing the man trap of the City of the Dead who are alive , and mentions that the slope of the inclosing sandhills was about forty five degrees . 
At first he thought he would call Travis' attention to this bit of cleverness but as he read he abruptly changed his mind . 
He would see if she would find it out for herself . 
He read steadily on , working himself into a positive excitement as he approached the passage . 
He came to it and read it through without any emphasis , almost slurring over it in his eagerness to be perfectly fair . 
But as he began to read the next paragraph , Travis , her little eyes sparkling with interest and attention , exclaimed Just as an engineer would describe it . 
Isn't that good ! Glory hallelujah ! cried Condy , slamming down the book joyfully . 
Travis , you are one in a thousand ! What what is it ? she inquired blankly . 
Never mind , never mind you're a wonder , that's all and he finished the tale without further explanation . 
Then , while he smoked another cigarette and she drank another cup of tea , he read to her The Return of Imri and the Incarnation of Krishna Mulvaney . 
He found her an easy and enrapt convert to the little Englishman's creed , and for himself tasted the intense delight of revealing to another an appreciation of a literature hitherto ignored . 
Isn't he strong ! cried Travis . 
Just a LITTLE better than Marie Corelli and the Duchess ! And to think of having all those stories to read ! You haven't read any of them yet ? Not a one . 
I've been reading only the novels we take up in the Wednesday class . 
Condy's spirits had been steadily rising since the incident aboard the whaleback . 
You're not going to play that banjo here ? said Travis , as he stripped away the canvas covering . 
Order in the gallery ! cried Condy , beginning to tune up . 
Travis was cross in a moment , all the more so because Condy had spoken the exact truth . 
It was quite impossible for her to carry a tune half a dozen bars without entangling herself in as many different keys . 
What voice she had was not absolutely bad but as she persisted in singing in spite of Condy's guying , he put back his head and began a mournful and lugubrious howling . 
Ho ! she exclaimed , grabbing the banjo from his knees , if I can't sing , I can play better than some smart people . 
Yes , by note , rallied Condy , as Travis executed a banjo piece of no little intricacy . 
That's just like a machine like a hand piano . 
Order in the gallery ! she retorted , without pausing in her playing . 
She finished with a great flourish and gazed at him in triumph , only to find him pretending a profound slumber . 
O o o ! she remarked between her teeth , I just hate you , Condy Rivers . 
There are others , he returned airily . 
NOW what will we do ? he cried . 
Suppose we break something just for fun . 
Then suddenly the gayety went out of his face , and he started up and clapped his hand to his head with a gasp of dismay . 
Great Heavens ! he exclaimed . 
Condy , cried Travis in alarm , what is it The Tea ! he vociferated . 
I ought to be there right this minute . 
Travis fetched a sigh of relief . 
Is that all ? All ! he retorted . 
All ! Why , it's past four now and I'd forgotten every last thing . 
Then suddenlly falling calm again , and quietly resuming his seat I don't see as it makes any difference . 
I won't go , that's all . 
Push those almonds here , will you , Miss Lady ? But we aren't DOING anything , he exclaimed , with a brusque return of exuberance . 
What'll we do ? Think of something . 
His head was as flat As the head of a cat , This quadrupetantical Ounce , tical Ounce , This quadrupetantical Ounce . 
You'd think from his name he was small , But that was not like him at all . 
He weighed , I'll be bound , Three or four hundred pound , And he looked most uncommonly tall , monly tall , And he looked most uncommonly tall . 
Bravo ! bravo ! cried Travis , pounding on the table . 
Hear , hear none , Brutus , none . 
He heaved a sigh , and thrust both hands gloomily into his pockets . 
Cheese , Condy ? asked Travis . 
He shook his head with a dark frown , muttering No cheese , no cheese . 
What's wrong , Condy what's the matter ? asked Travis , with concern . 
For some time he would not tell her , answering all her inquiries by closing his eyes and putting his chin in the air , nodding his head in knowing fashion . 
But what is it ? You don't respect me , he muttered and for a long time this was all that could be got from him . 
No , no , she did not respect him no , she did not take him seriously . 
But of course I do . 
Why don't I ? Condy Rivers , what's got into you NOW ? No , no I know it . 
You don't take me seriously . 
But why ? Make a blooming buffoon of myself , he mumbled tragically . 
In great distress Travis labored to contradict him . 
Why , they had just been having a good time , that was all . 
Why , she had been just as silly as he . 
Condy caught at the word . 
But haven't we had a great afternoon ? he added , with a sudden grin . 
I never remember , announced Travis emphatically , when I've had a better time than I've had to day and I know just why it's been such a success . 
Why , then ? Because we've had no foolishness . 
We've just been ourselves , and haven't pretended we were in love with each other when we are not . 
Condy , let's do this lots . 
Do what ? Go round to queer little , interesting little places . 
We've had a glorious time to day , haven't we ? and we haven't been talked out once . 
As we were last night , for instance , he hazarded . 
I THOUGHT you felt it , the same as I did . 
It WAS a bit awful wasn't it ? It was . 
From now on , let's make a resolution . 
I know you've had a good time to day . 
Haven't you had a better time than if you had gone to the Tea ? Well , RATHER . 
I don't know when I've had a better , jollier afternoon . 
Well , now , we're going to try to have lots more good times , but just as chums . 
We've tried the other , and it failed . 
Now be sincere didn't it fail ? It worked out . 
Now from this time on , no more foolishness . 
The moment you begin to pretend you're in love with me , it will spoil everything . 
It's funny , said Travis , drawing on her gloves . 
We're doing a funny thing , Condy . 
There , there , he's a thousand miles away . 
He's not heard a single word I've said . 
Condy , are you listening to me ? Blix , he murmured , staring at her vaguely . 
Blix you look that way I don't know , look kind of blix . 
Don't you feel sort of blix ? he inquired anxiously . 
Blix ? He smote the table with his palm . 
Capital ! he cried sounds bully , and snappy , and crisp , and bright , and sort of sudden . 
Sounds don't you know , THIS way ? and he snapped his fingers . 
Don't you see what I mean ? Blix , that's who you are . 
You've always been Blix , and I've just found it out . 
Blix , he added , listening to the sound of the name . 
Yes , yes that's your name . 
Blix ? she repeated but why Blix ? Why not ? I don't know why not . 
Well , then , he declared , as though that settled the question . 
They made ready to go , as it was growing late . 
Will you tie that for me , Condy , she asked , rising and turning the back of her head toward him , the ends of the veil held under her fingers . 
Condy , don't pull it so tight . 
There , there , that will do . 
Have you everything that belongs to you ? I know you'll go away and leave something here . 
There's your cigarette case , and your book , and of course the banjo . 
As if warned by a mysterious instinct , the fat Chinaman made his appearance in the outer room . 
Condy put his fingers into his vest pocket , then dropped back upon his stool with a suppressed exclamation of horror . 
Condy ! exclaimed Blix in alarm , are you sick ? for he had turned a positive white . 
I haven't a cent of money , he murmured faintly . 
I spent my last quarter for those beastly crackers . 
What's to be done ? What is to be done ? I'll I'll leave him my watch . 
Yes , that's the only thing . 
Blix calmly took out her purse . 
I expected it , she said resignedly . 
I knew this would happen sooner or later , and I always have been prepared . 
How much is it , John ? she asked of the Chinaman . 
I'll never be able to look you in the face again , protested Condy . 
I'll pay you back to night . 
I will ! I'll send it up by a messenger boy . 
Then you WOULD be a buffoon . 
Don't , it humiliates me to the dust . 
Oh , come along and don't be so absurd . 
It must be after five . 
Half way down the brass bound stairs , he clapped his hand to his head with a start . 
And NOW what is it ? she inquired meekly . 
Forgotten , forgotten ! he exclaimed . 
I knew I would forget something . 
I knew it , you mean . 
He ran back , and returned with the great bag of crackers , and thrust it into her hands . 
Here , here , take these . 
We mustn't leave these , he declared earnestly . 
It would be a shameful waste of money and in spite of all her protests , he insisted upon taking the crackers along . 
Blix fixed him with a swift glance of genuine concern . 
Don't play to night , Condy , she said , with a sudden gravity . 
Fat lot I can play ! What money have I got to play with ? You might get some somewheres . 
But , anyhow , promise me you won't play . 
Well , of course I'll promise . 
How can I , if I haven't any money ? And besides , I've got my whaleback stuff to write . 
I'll have supper at the Club , and go up in the library and grind out copy for a while . 
Condy , said Blix , I think that diver's story is almost too good for 'The Times . 
Why don't you think of that ? Fine great idea ! I'll do that . 
Only I'll have to write it out of business hours . 
It will be extra work . 
Never mind , you do it and , she added , as he put her on the cable car , keep your mind on that thirty thousand word story of adventure . 
Good by , Condy haven't we had the jolliest day that ever was ? Couldn't have been better . 
Condy returned to his club . 
, It was about six o'clock . 
In response to his question , the hall boy told him that Tracy Sargeant had arrived a few moments previous , and had been asking for him . 
The Saturday of the week before , Condy had made an engagement with young Sargeant to have supper together that night , and perhaps go to the theatre afterward . 
Sargeant greeted him with extreme cordiality as he came up , and at once proposed a drink . 
The sudden death of his father for which event Sargeant was still mourning , had left him in such position that his monthly income was about five times as large as Condy's salary . 
The two had supper together , and Sargeant proposed the theatre . 
No , no I've got to work to night , asserted Condy . 
After dinner , while they were smoking their cigars in a window of the main room , one of the hall boys came up and touched Condy on the arm . 
Mr. Eckert , and Mr. Hendricks , and Mr. George Hands , and several other of those gentlemen are up in the card room , and are asking for you and Mr. Sargeant . 
Why , I didn't know the boys were here ! They've got a game going , Condy . 
Let's go up and get in . 
Shall we ? Condy remembered that he had no money . 
I'm flat broke , Tracy , he announced , for he knew Sargeant well enough to make the confession without wincing . 
No , I'll not get in but I'll go up and watch you a few minutes . 
They ascended to the card room , where the air was heavy and acrid with cigar smoke , and where the silence was broken only by the click of poker chips . 
At the end of twenty minutes Condy was playing , having borrowed enough money of Sargeant to start him in the game . 
Unusually talkative and restless , he had suddenly hardened and stiffened to a repressed , tense calm speechless , almost rigid in his chair . 
Excitable under even ordinary circumstances , his every faculty was now keyed to its highest pitch . 
The nervous strain upon him was like the stretching and tightening of harp strings , too taut to quiver . 
The color left his face , and the moisture fled his lips . 
Midnight struck , then one o'clock , then two , three , and four . 
Still his passion rode him like a hag , spurring the jaded body , rousing up the wearied brain . 
Then , as his tired eyes closed at last , occurred that strange trick of picture making that the overtaxed brain plays upon the retina . 
A swift series of pictures of the day's doings began to whirl THROUGH rather than BEFORE the pupils of his shut eyes . 
Then , suddenly , he remembered the promise he had made her in the matter of playing that night . 
He winced sharply at this , and the remembrance of his fault harried and harassed him . 
In spite of himself , he felt contemptible . 
Had their relations changed ? Rather the reverse for they had done with foolishness . 
Never worried me before , muttered Condy , as he punched up his pillow never worried me before . 
Why should it worry me now worry me like the devil and she caught on to that 'point' about the slope of forty five degrees . 
Chapter V Condy began his week's work for the supplement behindhand . 
Naturally he overslept himself Tuesday morning , and , not having any change in his pockets , was obliged to walk down to the office . 
He arrived late , to find the compositors already fretting for copy . 
His editor promptly asked for the whaleback stuff , and Condy was forced into promising it within a half hour . 
It was out of the question to write the article according to his own idea in so short a time so Condy faked the stuff from the exchange clipping , after all . 
His description of the boat and his comments upon her mission taken largely at second hand served only to fill space in the paper . 
They were lacking both in interest and in point . 
The article was a failure . 
In order to get the technical details , upon which he set such store , he consulted the Encyclopedias again , and worked in a number of unfamiliar phrases and odd sounding names . 
He was so proud of the result that he felt he could not wait until the tale was finished and in print to try its effect . 
He wanted appreciation and encouragement upon the instant . 
All through that week Blix had kept much to herself , and for the first time in two years had begun to spend every evening at home . 
She knew the house and its management at her fingers' ends , and supervised everything that went forward . 
Laurie Flagg coming to call upon her , on Wednesday afternoon , to remonstrate upon her sudden defection , found her in the act of tacking up a curtain across the pantry window . 
But Blix had the afternoons and evenings almost entirely to herself . 
These hours , heretofore taken up with functions and the discharge of obligations , dragged not a little during the week that followed upon her declaration of independence . 
Wednesday afternoon , however , was warm and fine , and she went to the Park with Snooky . 
Blix and Snooky went in . 
There was nobody about but the Japanese serving woman . 
A Chinaman , evidently of the merchant class , came in , with a Chinese woman following . 
As he took his place and the Japanese girl came up to get his order , Blix overheard him say in English Bring tea for um leddy . 
She was to have made one of a theatre party where Jack Carter was to be present . 
Then she suddenly remembered Morrowbie Jukes , The Return of Imri , and Krishna Mulvaney . 
She continued on past her home , downtown , and returned late for supper with Plain Tales and Many Inventions . 
Toward half past eight there came a titter of the electric bell . 
At the moment Blix was in the upper chamber of the house of Suddhoo , quaking with exquisite horror at the Seal cutter's magic . 
She looked up quickly as the bell rang . 
It was not Condy Rivers' touch . 
She swiftly reflected that it was Wednesday night , and that she might probably expect Frank Catlin . 
He was a fair specimen of the Younger Set , a sort of modified Jack Carter , and called upon her about once a fortnight . 
No doubt he would hint darkly as to his riotous living during the past few days and refer to his diet of bromo seltzers . 
I'm not at home , Victorine , announced Blix , intercepting the maid in the hall . 
There is only one thing I regret about this , she said to Condy Rivers on the Friday night of that week that is , that I never thought of doing it before . 
Then suddenly she put up her hand to shield her eyes , as though from an intense light , turning away her head abruptly . 
I say , what is it ? What what's the matter ? he exclaimed . 
Blix peeped at him fearfully from between her fingers . 
He's got it on , she whispered that awful crimson scarf . 
Hoh ! said Condy , touching his scarf nervously , it's it's very swell . 
Is it too loud ? he asked uneasily . 
Well , look at this room ! he shouted they were in the parlor . 
You needn't talk about bad taste . 
Oh , speak to me of this speak to me of art speak to me of aesthetics . 
Of course , why not GILDED ! He wrung his hands . 
Somewhere little children are at play Oh , hush ! she interrupted . 
I know it's bad but we've always had it so , and I won't have it abused . 
Let's go into the dining room , anyway . 
We'll sit in there after this . 
We've always been stiff and constrained in here . 
They went out into the dining room , and drew up a couple of arm chairs into the bay window , and sat there looking out . 
Blix had not yet lighted the gas it was hardly dark enough for that and for upward of ten minutes they sat and watched the evening dropping into night . 
Beyond was the Contra Costa shore , a vast streak of purple against the sky . 
But , further than this , the eye was stayed . 
Further than this there was nothing , nothing but a vast , illimitable plain of green the open Pacific . 
But at this hour the color of the scene was its greatest charm . 
It glowed with all the sombre radiance of a cathedral . 
As the evening faded , the west burned down to a dull red glow that overlaid the blue of the bay with a sheen of ruddy gold . 
The foot hills of the opposite shore , Diablo , and at last even Tamalpais , resolved themselves in the velvet gray of the sky . 
Only the masses remained , and these soon began to blend into one another . 
The sky , and land , and the city's huddled roofs were one . 
Only the sheen of dull gold remained , piercing the single vast mass of purple like the blade of a golden sword . 
There's a ship ! said Blix in a low tone . 
A four master was dropping quietly through the Golden Gate , swimming on that sheen of gold , a mere shadow , specked with lights red and green . 
In a few moments her bows were shut from sight by the old fort at the Gate . 
Then her red light vanished , then the mainmast . 
By midnight she would be out of sight of land , rolling on the swell of the lonely ocean under the moon's white eye . 
Condy and Blix sat quiet and without speech , not caring to break the charm of the evening . 
For quite five minutes they sat thus , watching the stars light one by one , and the immense gray night settle and broaden and widen from mountain top to horizon . 
They did not feel the necessity of making conversation . 
There was no constraint in their silence now . 
Gently , and a little at a time , Condy turned his head and looked at Blix . 
There was just light enough to see . 
She was leaning back in her chair , her hands fallen into her lap , her head back and a little to one side . 
As usual , she was in black but now it was some sort of dinner gown that left her arms and neck bare . 
The line of the chin and the throat and the sweet round curve of the shoulder had in it something indescribable something that was related to music , and that eluded speech . 
Her hair was nothing more than a warm colored mist without form or outline . 
It seemed to him as if her sweet , clean purity and womanliness took a form of its own which his accustomed senses were too gross to perceive . 
Only a certain vague tenderness in him went out to meet and receive this impalpable presence a tenderness not for her only , but for all the good things of the world . 
Often he had experienced the same feeling when listening to music . 
Her sweetness , her goodness , appealed to what he guessed must be the noblest in him . 
And she was only nineteen . 
Suddenly his heart swelled , the ache came to his throat and the smart to his eyes . 
Blixy , he said , just above a whisper Blixy , wish I was a better sort of chap . 
That's the beginning of being better , isn't it , Condy ? she answered , turning toward him , her chin on her hand . 
It's the keeping it up that's the grind . 
There's something in that , there's something in that . 
Then , after a pause I played Monday night , after all , Blix , after promising I wouldn't . 
But I'm going to do my best . 
I haven't played since , although there was plenty of chance . 
You see , this card business is only a part of this club life , this city life like drinking and other vices of men . 
If I didn't have to lead the life , or if I didn't go with that crowd Sargeant and the rest of those men it would be different easier , maybe . 
But a man ought to be strong enough to be himself and master of himself anywhere . 
Condy , IS there anything in the world better or finer than a strong man ? Not unless it is a good woman , Blix . 
I suppose I look at it from a woman's point of view but for me a STRONG man strong in everything is the grandest thing in the world . 
Women love strong men , Condy . 
They can forgive a strong man almost anything . 
Condy did not immediately answer , and in the interval an idea occurred to Blix that at once hardened into a determination . 
But she said nothing at the moment . 
The spell of the sunset was gone and they had evidently reached the end of that subject of their talk . 
Blix rose to light the gas . 
Will you promise me one thing , Condy ? she said . 
Don't if you don't want to . 
But will you promise me that you will tell me whenever you do play ? That I'll promise you ! exclaimed Condy and I'll keep that , too . 
And now , let's hear the story or what you've done of it . 
They drew up to the dining room table with its cover of blue denim edged with white cord , and Condy unrolled his manuscript and read through what he had written . 
She approved , and , as he had foreseen , caught on to every one of his points . 
He was almost ready to burst into cheers when she said Any one reading that would almost believe you had been a diver yourself , or at least had lived with divers . 
Those little details count , don't they ? Condy , I've an idea . 
See what you think of it . 
Instead of having the story end with his leaving her down there and going away , do it this way . 
Let him leave her there , and then go back after a long time when he gets to be an old man . 
Fix it up some way to make it natural . 
Condy choked back a whoop and smote his knee . 
Blix , you're the eighth wonder ! Magnificent glorious ! Say ! he fixed her with a glance of curiosity you ought to take to story writing yourself . 
No , no , she retorted significantly . 
I'll just stay with my singing and be content with that . 
But remember that story don't go to 'The Times' supplement . 
At least not until you have tried it East with the Centennial Company , at any rate . 
Well , I guess NOT ! snorted Condy . 
Why , this is going to be one of the best yarns I ever wrote . 
A little later on he inquired with sudden concern Have you got anything to eat in the house ? I never saw such a man ! declared Blix you are always hungry . 
I love to eat , he protested . 
Well , we'll make some creamed oysters how would that do ? suggested Blix . 
Oh , speak to me of creamed oysters ! Then , with abrupt solemnity Blix , I never in my life had as many oysters as I could eat . 
She made the creamed oysters in the kitchen over the gas stove , and they ate them there Condy sitting on the washboard of the sink , his plate in his lap . 
Condy had a way of catching up in his hands whatever happened to be nearest him , and , while still continuing to talk , examining it with apparent deep interest . 
Just now it happened to be the morning's paper that Victorine had left on the table . 
For five minutes Condy had been picking it up and laying it down , frowning abstractedly at it during the pauses in the conversation . 
Suddenly he became aware of what it was , and instantly read aloud the first item that caught his glance 'Personal . 
Young woman , thirty one , good housekeeper , desires acquaintance respectable middle aged gentleman . 
Address K. D. B. , this office . 
Hum ! he commented , nothing equivocal about K. D. B. has the heroism to call herself young at thirty one . 
I'll bet she IS a good housekeeper . 
If K. D. B. don't see what she wants , she asks for it . 
I wonder , mused Blix , what kind of people they are who put personals in the papers . 
K. D. B. , for instance who is she , and what is she like ? They're not tough , Condy assured her . 
I see 'em often down at 'The Times' office . 
Read some more , urged Blix . 
'Bachelor , good habits , twenty five , affectionate disposition , accomplishments , money , desires acquaintance pretty , refined girl . 
No , I don't like McB . 
He's too ornamental , somehow . 
He wouldn't do for K. D. B. , would he ? Oh , my , no ! He'd make her very unhappy . 
'Widower , two children , home loving disposition , desires introduction to good , honest woman to make home for his children . 
B. P. T. , Box A , this office . 
I know he would want K. D. B. to warm his slippers , and would be fretful and grumpy . 
B. P. T. , just an abbreviation of bumptious . 
No , he can't have her . 
Condy read the next two or three to himself , despite her protests . 
Condy , don't be mean ! Read them to Ah ! he exclaimed , here's one for K. D. B. Behold , the bridegroom cometh ! Listen . 
'Bachelor , thirty nine , sober and industrious , retired sea captain , desires acquaintance respectable young woman , good house keeper and manager . 
Address Captain Jack , office this paper . 
I know he's got a wooden leg ! cried Blix . 
Can't you just see it sticking out between the lines ? And he lives all alone somewhere down near the bay with a parrot And makes a glass of grog every night . 
And smokes a long clay pipe . 
Yes , isn't it a pity he will chew that nasty , smelly tobacco ? But K. D. B. will break him of that . 
Oh , is he for K. D. B. ? Sent by Providence ! declared Blix . 
They were born for each other . 
Just see , K. D. B. is a good housekeeper , and wants a respectable middle aged gentleman . 
Captain Jack is a respectable middle aged gentleman , and wants a good housekeeper . 
Oh , and besides , I can read between the lines ! I just feel they would be congenial . 
If they know what's best for themselves , they would write to each other right away . 
But wouldn't you love to be there and see them meet ! exclaimed Condy . 
Can't we fix it up some way , said Blix , to bring these two together to help them out in some way ? Condy smote the table and jumped to his feet . 
Write to 'em ! he shouted . 
Write to K. D. B. and sign it Captain Jack , and write to Captain Jack And sign it K. D. B. , she interrupted , catching his idea . 
And have him tell her , and her tell him , he added , to meet at some place and then we can go to that place and hide , and watch . 
But how will we know them ? How would they know each other ? They've never met . 
We'll tell them both to wear a kind of flower . 
Then we can know them , and they can know each other . 
Of course as soon as they began to talk they would find out they hadn't written . 
No they want to meet each other . 
They would be thankful to us for bringing them together . 
Won't it be the greatest fun ? Fun ! Why , it will be a regular drama . 
Only we are running the show , and everything is real . 
Let's get at it ! Blix ran into her room and returned with writing material . 
Condy looked at the note paper critically . 
K. D. B. wouldn't use Irish linen never ! Here , this is better , glazed with blue lines and a flying bird stamped in the corner . 
Now I'll write for the Captain , and you write for K. D. B. But where will we have them meet ? This was a point . 
They considered the Chinese restaurant , the Plaza , Lotta's fountain , the Mechanics' Library , and even the cathedral over in the Mexican quarter , but arrived at no decision . 
Did you ever hear of Luna's restaurant ? said Condy . 
I was there just once . 
We'll have 'em meet there at seven in the evening . 
No one is there at that hour . 
The place isn't patronized much , and it shuts up at eight . 
You and I can go there and have dinner at six , say , and watch for them to come . 
Then they set to work at their letters . 
Now , said Condy , we must have these sound perfectly natural , because if either of these people smell the smallest kind of a rat , you won't catch 'em . 
You must write not as YOU would write , but as you think THEY would . 
This is an art , a kind of fiction , don't you see ? We must imagine a certain character , and write a letter consistent with that character . 
Now , K. D. B. Well , K. D. B. , she's prim . 
Let's have her prim , and proud of using correct , precise , 'elegant' language . 
I guess she wears mits , and believes in cremation . 
Let's have her believe in cremation . 
SIR I have perused with entire satisfaction your personal in 'The Times . 
I should like to know more of you . 
I read between the lines , and my perception ineradicably convinces me that you are honest and respectable . 
I do not believe I should compromise my self esteem at all in granting you an interview . 
I shall be at Luna's restaurant at seven precisely , next Monday eve , and will bear a bunch of white marguerites . 
Will you not accord me the great favor of a personal interview ? I shall esteem it a high honor . 
I will be at Luna's Mexican restaurant at seven of the clock P. M. on Monday evening next . 
May I express the fervent hope that you also will be there ? I name the locality because it is quiet and respectable . 
I shall wear a white marguerite in my buttonhole . 
Will you also carry a bunch of the same flower ? Yours to command , CAPTAIN JACK . 
Now let it work ! she exclaimed as the iron flap clanked down upon the disappearing envelopes . 
But Condy was suddenly smitten with nameless misgiving . 
Now we've done it ! now we've done it ! he cried aghast . 
We're in a fine fix now . 
Still uneasy , he saw Blix back to the flat , and bade her good by at the door . 
I want you to teach me . 
The old man let the clock fall into his lap and stared . 
But Blix explained her reasons . 
Chapter VI The next day was Saturday , and Blix had planned a walk out to the Presidio . 
'I've got ptomaine poisoning from eating the creamed oysters last night , and am in for a solid fortnight spent in bed . 
Have passed a horrible night . 
Can't you look in at the hotel this afternoon ? My mother will be here at the time . 
Ptomaine poisoning ! The name had an ugly sound , and Condy's use of the term inferred the doctor's visit . 
Blix decided that she would put off her walk until the afternoon , and call on Mrs. Rivers at once , and ask how Condy did . 
She got away from the flat about ten o'clock , but on the steps outside met Condy dressed as if for bicycling , and smoking a cigarette . 
I've got eleven dollars ! he announced cheerily . 
But I thought it was ptomaine poisoning ! she cried with sudden vexation . 
Pshaw ! that's what the doctor says . 
He's a flapdoodle nothing but a kind of a sort of a pain . 
I'm as fit as a fiddle and I've got eleven dollars . 
Let's go somewhere and do something . 
But your work ? They don't expect me . 
When I thought I was going to be sick , I telephoned the office , and they said all right , that they didn't need me . 
Now I've got eleven dollars , and there are three holidays of perfect weather before us to day , to morrow , and Monday . 
What will we do ? What must we do to be saved ? Our matrimonial objects don't materialize till Monday night . 
Or , added Condy , his eye caught by a fresh fish peddler who had just turned into the street , we can go fishing . 
But the idea had caught Condy's fancy . 
Blix ! he exclaimed , let's go fishing . 
Where ? I don't know . 
Where DO people fish around here ? Where there's water , I presume . 
No , is it possible ? she asked with deep concern . 
I thought they fished in their back yards , or in their front parlors perhaps . 
Oh , you be quiet ! you're all the time guying me , he answered . 
Let me think let me think , he went on , frowning heavily , scouring at his hair . 
Suddenly he slapped a thigh . 
Come on , he cried , I've an idea ! He was already half way down the steps , when Blix called him back . 
Leave it all to me , he assured her trust me IMPLICITLY . 
Don't you want to go ? he demanded with abrupt disappointment . 
Want to ! she exclaimed . 
Why , it would be the very best kind of fun , but Well , then , come along . 
They took a downtown car . 
I've got a couple of split bamboo rods , he explained as the car slid down the terrific grade of the Washington Street hill . 
I haven't used 'em in years not since we lived East but they're hand made , and are tip top . 
I haven't any other kind of tackle but it's just as well , because the tackle will all depend upon where we are going to fish . 
Where's that ? Don't know yet am going down now to find out . 
He took her down to the principal dealer in sporting goods on Market Street . 
It was a delicious world , whose atmosphere and charm were not to be resisted . 
Condy and Blix got the attention of a clerk , and Condy explained . 
I want to go fishing we want to go fishing . 
We want some place where we can go and come in the same day , and we want to catch fair sized fish no minnows . 
The following half hour was charming . 
Never was there a clerk more delightful . 
It would appear that his one object in life was that Condy and Blix should catch fish . 
The affairs of the nation stood still while he pondered , suggested , advised , and deliberated . 
He told them where to go , how to get there , what train to take coming back , and who to ask for when they arrived . 
He'll put you on to the good spots some places are A to day , and to morrow in the same place you can't kill a single fish . 
Condy nudged Blix as the Mentor turned away to get his card . 
Notice that , he whispered KILL a fish . 
You don't say 'catch , you say 'kill' technical detail . 
Blix would get these shrimps at a little market near her home . 
But , said the clerk , you got to get a permit to fish in that lake . 
Have you got a pull with the Water Company ? Are you a stockholder ? Condy's face fell , and Blix gave a little gasp of dismay . 
They looked at each other . 
Here was a check , indeed . 
But Lake San Andreas has been bang up this last week been some great kills there hope to the deuce you can make it . 
Everything now hinged upon this permit . 
It was not until their expedition had been in doubt that Condy and Blix realized how alluring had been its prospects . 
Oh , I guess you can get a permit , said the clerk soothingly . 
An' if you make any good kills , lemmeno and I'll put it in the paper . 
I'm the editor of the 'Sport with Gun and Rod' column in 'The Press , he added with a flush of pride . 
Toward the middle of the afternoon Blix , who was waiting at home , in great suspense , for that very purpose , received another telegram from Condy Tension of situation relieved . 
It had been understood that Condy was to come to the flat on Sunday afternoon to talk over final arrangements with Blix . 
But as it was , Saturday evening saw him again at the Bessemers . 
He had been down at his club in the library , writing the last paragraphs of his diver's story , when , just as he finished , Sargeant discovered him . 
Why , Conny , old man , all alone here ? Let's go downstairs and have a cigar . 
Hendricks and George Hands are coming around in half an hour . 
They told me not to let you get away . 
Condy stirred nervously in his chair . 
He knew what that meant . 
He had enough money in his pockets to play that night , and in an instant the enemy was all awake . 
The rowel was in his flank again , and the scourge at his back . 
Sargeant stood there , the well groomed clubman of thirty a little cynical perhaps , but a really good fellow for all that , and undeniably fond of Condy . 
Wait a few moments , he said . 
He hurried to the office of the club , and sent a despatch to Blix the third since morning Can I come up right away ? It's urgent . 
Send answer by this messenger . 
He got his answer within three quarters of an hour , and left the club as Hendricks and George Hands arrived by the elevator entrance . 
Sitting in the bay window of the dining room , he told Blix why he had come . 
Oh , you were right ! she told him . 
Always , ALWAYS come , when when you feel you must . 
Just the touch of the cards just the FEEL of the chips . 
Blix put up their lunch sandwiches of what Condy called devilish ham , hard boiled eggs , stuffed olives , and a bottle of claret . 
In the end Blix had to help him out , disentangling the lines foot by foot with a patience that seemed to Condy little short of superhuman . 
Come here for breakfast , and listen be here by half past six are you LISTENING , Condy ? and we'll go down to the depot from here . 
Don't forget to bring the rods . 
I'll wear my bicycle suit , he said , and one of those golf scarfs that wrap around your neck . 
No , she declared , I won't have it . 
Wear the oldest clothes you've got , but look fairly respectable , because we're to go to Luna's when we get back , remember . 
And now go home you need all the sleep you can get if you are to get up at six o'clock . 
Instead of being late , as Blix had feared , Condy was absurdly ahead of time the next morning . 
For a wonder , he had not forgotten the rods but he was one tremor of nervousness . 
He would eat no breakfast . 
We're going to miss that train , he would announce from time to time I just know it . 
Blix , look what time it is . 
We ought to be on the way to the depot now . 
Come on you don't want any more coffee . 
The train had not even backed in , nor the ticket office opened . 
I told you , Condy , I told you , complained Blix , sinking helplessly upon a bench in the waiting room . 
No no no , he answered vaguely , looking nervously about , his head in the air . 
We're none too soon have more time to rest now . 
I wonder what track the train leaves from . 
I wonder if it stops at San Bruno . 
I wonder how far it is from San Bruno to Lake San Andreas . 
I'm afraid it's going to rain . 
Heavens and earth , Blix , we forgot the shrimps ! No , NO ! Sit down , I've got the shrimps . 
Condy , you make me so nervous I shall scream in a minute . 
Some three quarters of an hour later the train had set them down at San Bruno nothing more than a road house , the headquarters for duck shooters and fishermen from the city . 
However , Blix and Condy were the only visitors . 
Everybody seemed to be especially nice to them on that wonderful morning . 
Even the supercilious ticket seller at the San Francisco depot had unbent , and wished them good luck . 
The conductor of the train had shown himself affable . 
The very brakeman had gone out of his way to apprise them , quite five minutes ahead of time , that the next stop was their place . 
And he only asked me four bits for both trips , whispered Condy to Blix as they jogged along . 
It was hardly eight o'clock , and the morning still retained much of the brisk effervescence of the early dawn . 
Great bare , rolling hills of gray green , thinly scattered with live oak , bore back from the road on either hand . 
The sky was pale blue . 
There was a smell of cows in the air , and twice they heard an unseen lark singing . 
There was exhilaration in the very thought of being alive on that odorous , still morning . 
The young blood went spanking in the veins . 
Blix's cheeks were ruddy , her little dark brown eyes fairly coruscating with pleasure . 
Condy , isn't it all splendid ? she suddenly burst out . 
I feel regularly bigger , he declared solemnly . 
I could do anything a morning like this . 
Then they came to the lake , and to Richardson's , where the farmer lived who was also the custodian of the lake . 
The complacent horse jogged back , and Condy and Blix set about the serious business of the day . 
Condy had no need to show Richardson the delightful sporting clerk's card . 
The old Yankee his twang and dry humor singularly incongruous on that royal morning was solicitude itself . 
Blix sat in the stern , jointing the rods and running the lines through the guides . 
Look around isn't this great ? They were absolutely alone . 
The day was young yet . 
The lake , smooth and still as gray silk , widened to the west and south without so much as a wrinkle to roughen the surface . 
Only to the east , where the sun looked over a shoulder of a higher hill , it flamed up into a blinding diamond iridescence . 
The surrounding land lay between sky and water , hushed to a Sunday stillness . 
Far off across the lake by Richardson's they heard a dog bark , and the sound came fine and small and delicate . 
At long intervals the boat stirred with a gentle clap clapping of the water along its sides . 
From his seat in the bow , Condy cast a glance at Blix . 
She was holding her rod in both hands , absorbed , watchful , very intent . 
She was as trim as ever , even in the old clothes she had worn for the occasion . 
Her round , strong neck was as usual swathed high and tight in white , and the huge dog collar girdled her waist according to her custom . 
She had taken off her hat . 
No fish , murmured Condy , drawing in his line to examine the bait . 
But , as he was fumbling with the flies he was startled by a sharp exclamation from Blix . 
Oh Condy I've got a bite ! He looked up just in time to see the tip of her rod twitch , twitch , twitch . 
Then the whole rod arched suddenly , the reel sang , the line tautened and cut diagonally through the water . 
You got him ! you got him ! he shouted , palpitating with excitement . 
And he's a good one ! Blix rose , reeling in as rapidly as was possible , the butt of the twitching , living rod braced against her belt . 
All at once the rod straightened out again , the strain was released , and the line began to slant rapidly away from the boat . 
He's off ! she cried . 
Off , nothing ! HE'S GOING TO JUMP . 
Keep the line taut , whispered Condy , gritting his teeth . 
When he comes toward you , reel him in an' if he pulls too hard , give him his head . 
Blix was breathing fast , her cheeks blazing , her eyes all alight . 
Swimming parallel with the boat , he was plainly visible from his wide opened mouth the hook and fly protruding from his lower jaw to the red , quivering flanges of the tail . 
His sides were faintly speckled , his belly white as chalk . 
He was almost as long as Condy's forearm . 
Oh , he's a beauty ! Oh , isn't he a beauty ! murmured Condy . 
Now , careful , careful bring him up to the boat where I can reach him e easy , Blix . 
If he bolts again , let him run . 
Twice the trout shied from the boat's shadow , and twice , as Blix gave him his head , the reel sang and hummed like a watch man's rattle . 
But the third time he came to the surface and turned slowly on his side , the white belly and one red fin out of the water , the gills opening and shutting . 
A third time Blix drew him gently to the boat's side . 
Their exultation was that of veritable children . 
When he broke that time , wasn't it grand ? And when I first felt him bite ! It was so sudden why , it actually frightened me . 
I never no , never in my life ! exclaimed Blix , was so happy as I am at this moment . 
When they were calm again , they returned to their fishing . 
The morning passed , and it was noon before they were aware of it . 
By half past twelve Blix had caught three trout , though the first was by far the heaviest . 
Condy had not had so much as a bite . 
At one o'clock they rowed ashore and had lunch under a huge live oak in a little amphitheatre of manzanita . 
Never had a lunch tasted so delicious . 
Nothing short of actual tragedy could have marred the joy of that day . 
Blix had taken a deck of cards from the lunch basket , and four rolls of chips wrapped in tissue paper . 
He stared at her in speechless amazement . 
What do you say ? she repeated , looking at him and smiling . 
Why , Blix ! he exclaimed in amazement , what do you mean ? Just what I say . 
I want you to play cards with me . 
I'll not to do it , he declared , almost coldly . 
Listen to me , Condy , answered Blix and for quite five minutes , while he interrupted and protested and pshawed and argued , she talked to him calmly and quietly . 
But it's absurd , it's preposterous . 
Is that it ? I can soon show you , Condy Rivers never mind when I learned how . 
But , Blix , you don't know how often we play , those men and I. Why , it is almost every you don't know how often we play . 
Condy , whenever you want to play , and will play with ME , no matter what I've got in hand , I'll stop everything and play with you . 
I want to play put it that way . 
But I want you to promise me never to play with any one else say for six months . 
And in the end , whipped by a sense of shame , Condy made her the promise . 
They became very gay upon the instant . 
Hoh ! exclaimed Condy what do YOU know of poker ? I think we had best play old sledge or cassino . 
Blix had dealt a hand and partitioned the chips . 
Straights and flushes BEFORE the draw , she announced calmly . 
Condy started and stared then , looking at her askance , picked up his hand . 
I'll make it five to play . 
How many cards ? Three . 
Blix looked at her hand . 
Then , without trace of expression in her voice or face , said There's your five , and I ll raise you five . 
And five better than that . 
Aces on tens , said Blix , throwing down her cards . 
Heavens ! they're good as gold , muttered Condy as Blix gathered in the chips . 
An hour later she had won all the chips but five . 
Now we'll stop and get to fishing again don't you want to ? He agreed , and she counted the chips . 
Condy , you owe me seven dollars and a half , she announced . 
Well , he said jocosely , I'll send you around a check to morrow . 
But at this Blix was cross upon the instant . 
You wouldn't do that wouldn't talk that way with one of your friends at the club ! she exclaimed and it's not right to do it with me . 
Condy , give me seven dollars and a half . 
When you play cards with me it's just as though it were with another man . 
I would have paid you if you had won . 
But I haven't got more than nine dollars . 
Who'll pay for the supper to night at Luna's , and our railroad fare going home ? I'll pay . 
But I I can't afford to lose money this way . 
Shouldn't have played , then . 
I took the same chances as you . 
Condy , I want my money . 
You you why you've regularly flimflammed me . 
Will you give me my money ? Oh , take your money then ! Blix shut the money in her purse , and rose , dusting her dress . 
Now , she said now that the pastime of card playing is over , we will return to the serious business of life , which is the catching no , KILLING'of lake trout . 
At five o'clock in the afternoon , Condy pulled up the anchor of railroad iron and rowed back to Richardson's . 
Blix had six trout to her credit , but Condy's ill luck had been actually ludicrous . 
I can hold a string in the water as long as anybody , he complained , but I'd like to have the satisfaction of merely changing the bait OCCASIONALLY . 
I've not had a single bite not a nibble , y' know , all day . 
Never mind , you got the big trout , Blix that first one . 
That five minutes was worth the whole day . 
It's been glorious , the whole thing . 
We'll come down here once a week right along now . 
But the one incident that completed the happiness of that wonderful day occurred just as they were getting out of the boat on the shore by Richardson's . 
That , declared Blix as they climbed into the old buggy which was to take them to the train , was the one thing necessary . 
That made the day perfect . 
They reached the city at dusk , and sent their fish , lunch basket , and rods up to the Bessemers' flat by a messenger boy with an explanatory note for Blix's father . 
Now , said Condy , for Luna's and the matrimonial objects . 
Chapter VII Luna's Mexican restaurant has no address . 
It is on no particular street , at no particular corner even its habitues , its most enthusiastic devotees , are unable to locate it upon demand . 
It is over there in the quarter , not far from the cathedral there . 
One could find it if one started out with that intent but to direct another there no , that is out of the question . 
It CAN be reached by following the alleys of Chinatown . 
It is always to be searched for . 
On that particular Monday evening Blix and Condy arrived at Luna's some fifteen minutes before seven . 
As Condy had foretold , they had the place to themselves . 
Condy and Blix ate with their eyes continually wandering to the door and as the FRIJOLES were being served , started simultaneously and exchanged glances . 
A man wearing two marguerites in the lapel of his coat had entered abruptly , and sat down to a table close at hand . 
Condy drew a breath of suppressed excitement . 
There he is , he whispered Captain Jack ! They looked at the newcomer with furtive anxiety , and told themselves that they were disappointed . 
For a retired sea captain he was desperately commonplace . 
His hair was red , he was younger than they had expected , and , worst of all , he did look tough . 
Oh , poor K. D. B. ! sighed Blix , shaking her head . 
He'll never do , I'm afraid . 
Perhaps he has a good heart , though red headed people are SOMETIMES affectionate . 
They are impulsive , hazarded Condy . 
As he spoke the words , a second man entered the little room . 
He , too , sat down at a nearby table . 
He , too , ordered the supper Mexican . 
He , too , wore marguerites in his buttonhole . 
Death and destruction ! gasped Condy , turning pale . 
Blix collapsed helplessly in her chair , her hands dropping in her lap . 
They stared at each other in utter confusion . 
Here's a how do you do , murmured Condy , pretending to strip a TAMALE that Richard had just set before him . 
But Blix had pushed hers aside . 
What does it mean ? whispered Condy across the table . 
In Heaven's name , what does it mean ? It can only mean one thing , Blix declared one of them is the captain , and one is a coincidence . 
Anybody might wear a marguerite we ought to have thought of that . 
But which is which ? If K. D. B. should come now ! But the last man looks more like the captain . 
The last man was a sturdy , broad shouldered fellow , who might have been forty . 
His heavy mustache was just touched with gray , and he did have a certain vaguely sober and industrious appearance . 
But the difference between the two men was slight , after all the red headed man could easily have been a sea captain , and he certainly was over thirty five . 
Which ? which ? which ? how can we tell ? We might think of some way to get rid of the coincidence , if we could only tell which the coincidence was . 
We owe it to K. D. B. In a way , Condy , it's our duty . 
We brought her here , or we are going to , and we ought to help her all we can and she may be here at any moment . 
What time is it now ? Five minutes after seven . 
But , Blix , I should think the right one the captain would be all put out himself by seeing another chap here wearing marguerites . 
Does either one of 'em seem put out to you ? Look . 
I should think the captain , whichever one he is , would kind of GLARE at the coincidence . 
Stealthily they studied the two men for a moment . 
No , no , murmured Blix , you can't tell . 
Neither of them seems to glare much . 
Oh , Condy her voice dropped to a faint whisper . 
We're no better off than we were before . 
And K. D. B. may come at any moment . 
Maybe she has come already and looked through the windows , and saw TWO men with marguerites and went away . 
She'd be just that timid . 
What can we do ? Wait a minute , look here , murmured Condy . 
I'LL find out which the captain is . 
You see that picture , that chromo , on the wall opposite ? Blix looked as he indicated . 
The picture was a gorgeously colored lithograph of a pilot boat , schooner rigged , all sails set , dashing bravely through seas of emerald green color . 
You mean that schooner ? asked Blix . 
You ask me in a loud voice what kind of a boat that is and when I answer , you keep your eye on the two men . 
Why , what are you going to do ? You'll see . 
Try it now we've no time to lose . 
Blix shifted in her seat and cleared her throat . 
Then What a pretty boat that is up there , that picture on the wall . 
Condy had no need to wait for Blix's report . 
The demonstration came far too quickly for that . 
The red headed man at his loud declaration merely glanced in the direction of the chromo and returned to his enchellados . 
But he of the black mustache followed Condy's glance , noted the picture of which he spoke , and snorted contemptuously . 
They could hardly restrain their gayety but their gravity promptly returned when Blix kicked Condy's foot under the table and murmured He's looking at his watch , the captain is . 
K. D. B. isn't here yet , and the red headed man , the coincidence , is . 
We MUST get rid of him . 
Condy , can't you think of something ? Well , he won't go till he's through his supper , you can depend upon that . 
If he's here when K. D. B. arrives , it will spoil everything . 
She wouldn't stay a moment . 
She wouldn't even come in . 
Looks just like the kind of man to get into jail sooner or later . 
Maybe he's into some mischief now you never can tell . 
And the Mexican quarter of San Francisco is just the place for 'affairs . 
I'll warrant he's got PALS . 
Well , here he is that's the main point just keeping those people apart , spoiling a whole romance . 
It's QUITE possible really it is . 
This is a positive crisis we're looking at now . 
Can't we get rid of him SOMEHOW ? O oh ! whispered Blix , all at once , in a quiver of excitement . 
There is a way , if we'd ever have the courage to do it . 
It might work and if it didn't , he'd never know the difference , never would suspect us . 
Oh ! but we wouldn't dare . 
What ? what ? In Heaven's name what is it , Blix ? We wouldn't dare we couldn't . 
Oh ! but it would be such K. D. B. may come in that door at any second . 
I'm half afraid , but all the same Condy , let me have a pencil . 
She dashed off a couple of lines on the back of the bill of fare , and her hand trembled like a leaf as she handed him what she had written . 
Send him the red headed man that telegram . 
There's an office just two doors below here , next the drug store . 
I saw it as we came by . 
You know his initials remember , you saw them in his hat . 
W. J. A. , Luna's restaurant . 
Lord , muttered Condy , as he gazed upon what Blix had written . 
Do you dare ? she whispered , with a little hysterical shudder . 
If it failed we've nothing to lose . 
And K. D. B. is coming nearer every instant ! But would he go that is , at once ? We can only try . 
You won't be gone a hundred seconds . 
You can leave me here that length of time . 
Quick , Condy decide one way or the other . 
Condy reached for his hat . 
Give me some money , then , he said . 
Condy was actually sick with excitement , and all but tipped the seltzer bottle to the floor when a messenger boy appeared in the outer room . 
The boy and the proprietor held a conference over the counter . 
Then Richard appeared between the portieres of Nottingham lace , the telegram in his hand and the boy at his heels . 
The red headed man signed the receipt the boy departed . 
Blix and Condy heard the sound of torn paper as the red headed man opened the telegram . 
Ten seconds passed , then fifteen , then twenty . 
Condy dared to steal a glance at the red headed man's reflection in the mirror . 
He was studying the despatch , frowning horribly . 
He put it away in his pocket , took it out again with a fierce movement of impatience , and consulted it a second time . 
His supper Mexican remained untasted before him Condy and Blix heard him breathing loud through his nose . 
That he was profoundly agitated , they could not doubt for a single moment . 
All at once a little panic terror seemed to take possession of him . 
He rose , seized his hat , jammed it over his ears , slapped a half dollar upon the table , and strode from the restaurant . 
This is what the read headed man had read in the despatch this is what Blix had written ALL IS DISCOVERED . 
He disappeared he was swallowed up . 
He had left the restaurant , true . 
One thing only was certain . 
The red headed man had had a past . 
Meanwhile the minutes were passing , and K. D. B. still failed to appear . 
Captain Jack was visibly growing impatient , anxious . 
By now he had come to the fiery liqueur called mescal . 
He was nearly through his supper . 
At every moment he consulted his watch and fixed the outside door with a scowl . 
It was already twenty minutes after seven . 
I know the red headed man spoiled it , after all , murmured Blix . 
K. D. B. saw the two of them in here and was frightened . 
We could send Captain Jack a telegram from her , suggested Condy . 
I'm ready for anything now . 
What could you say ? Oh , that she couldn't come . 
He'd be offended with her . 
He'd never make another appointment . 
Sea captains are always so punctilious , y' know . 
Richard brought them their coffee and kirsch , and Condy showed Blix how to burn a lump of sugar and sweeten the coffee with syrup . 
Captain Jack was getting ready to leave . 
K. D. B. had evidently broken the appointment . 
Then all at once she appeared . 
The street door in the outside room had hardly closed before his hand shot to his coat lapel and tore out the two marguerites . 
The action was instinctive Blix knew it for such immediately . 
The retired captain had not premeditated it . 
He had not seen the face of the newcomer . 
She had not time to come into the back room , or even to close the street door . 
But the instant that the captain had recognized a bunch of white marguerites in her belt he had , without knowing why , been moved to conceal his identity . 
He's afraid , whispered Blix . 
Positively , I believe he's afraid . 
Why , she's PRETTY ! was Blix's first smothered exclamation , as if she had expected a harridan . 
K. D. B. looked like a servant girl of the better sort , and was really very neatly dressed . 
She was small , little even . 
She had snappy black eyes , a resolute mouth , and a general air of being very quiet , very matter of fact and complacent . 
She would be disturbed at nothing , excited at nothing Blix was sure of that . 
She was placid , but it was the placidity not of the absence of emotion , but of emotion disdained . 
Not the placidity of the mollusk , but that of a mature and contemplative cat . 
Quietly she sat down at a corner table , quietly she removed her veil and gloves , and quietly she took in the room and its three occupants . 
Condy and Blix glued their eyes upon their coffee cups like guilty conspirators but a crash of falling crockery called their attention to the captain's table . 
Captain Jack was in a tremor . 
Hitherto he had acted the role of a sane and sensible gentleman of middle age , master of himself and of the situation . 
The entrance of K. D. B. had evidently reduced him to a semi idiotic condition . 
He enlarged himself he eased his neck in his collar with a rotary movement of head and shoulders . 
He frowned terribly at trifling objects in corners of the room . 
He cleared his throat till the glassware jingled . 
He pulled at his mustache . 
He perspired , fumed , fretted , and was suddenly seized with an insane desire to laugh . 
Just so might have behaved an overgrown puppy in the presence of a sleepy , unperturbed chessy cat , dozing by the fire . 
He ought to be shaken , murmured Blix at the end of her patience . 
Five minutes passed and he was still in his place . 
From time to time K. D. B. fixed him with a quiet , deliberate look , and resumed her delicate picking . 
Do you think she knows it's he , now that he's taken off his marguerites ? whispered Condy . 
And she's so really pretty , too . 
He ought to thank his stars alive . 
Think what a fright she might have been ! She doesn't LOOK thirty one . 
As long as she SAID she was thirty one , you can bet everything you have that she is that's as true as revealed religion . 
Well , it's something to have seen the kind of people who write the personals , said Blix . 
I had always imagined that they were kind of tough . 
You see they are not , he answered . 
I told you they were not . 
Maybe , however , we have been exceptionally fortunate . 
At any rate , these are respectable enough . 
Not the least doubt about that . 
But why don't he do something , that captain ? mourned Blix . 
Why WILL he act like such a ninny ? He's waiting for us to go , said Condy I'm sure of it . 
They'll never meet so long as we're here . 
Let's go and give 'em a chance . 
If you leave the two alone here , one or the other will HAVE to speak . 
The suspense would become too terrible . 
It would be as though they were on a desert island . 
But I wanted to SEE them meet , she protested . 
You wouldn't hear what they said . 
But we'd never know if they did meet , and oh and WHO spoke first ? She'll speak first , declared Condy . 
Never ! returned Blix , in an indignant whisper . 
We could go and then come back in five minutes . 
I'll forget my stick here . 
Savvy ? You would probably do it anyhow , she told him . 
They decided this would be the better course . 
They got together their things , and Condy neglected his stick , hanging upon a hook on the wall . 
At the counter in the outside room , Blix , to the stupefaction of Richard , the waiter , paid the bill . 
But as she was moving toward the door , Condy called her back . 
Remember the waiter , he said severely , while Richard grinned and bobbed . 
Fifty cents is the very least you could tip him . 
Richard actually protested , but Condy was firm , and insisted upon a half dollar tip . 
Noblesse oblige , he declared with vast solemnity . 
Did I , could I have possibly left my stick here ? exclaimed Condy to Richard , who was untying his apron behind the counter . 
But Richard had not noticed . 
I think I must have left it back here where we were sitting . 
Condy stepped into the back room , Blix following . 
They got his stick and returned to the outside room . 
Yes , yes , I did leave it , he said , as he showed it to Richard . 
I'm always leaving that stick wherever I go . 
Come again , said Richard , as he bowed them out of the door . 
On the curb outside Condy and Blix shook hands and congratulated each other on the success of all their labors . 
But Condy was already worrying . 
I don't know , I don't know ! he murmured anxiously . 
Perhaps we've done an awful thing . 
Suppose they aren't happy together after they're married ? I wish we hadn't I wish we hadn't now . 
We've been playing a game of checkers with human souls . 
How do you know , you may have 'foiled a villain' with that telegram prevented a crime ? Condy grinned at the recollection of the incident . 
'Fly at once , he repeated . 
I guess he's flying yet . 
I'd give a dollar and a half If you had it ? Oh , well , if I had it to know just what it was we have discovered . 
Suddenly Blix caught his arm . 
Condy , here they come ! Who ? Who ? Our objects , Captain Jack and K. D. B. Of course , of course . 
As they passed , the captain was saying jumped on my hatches , and says we'll make it an international affair . 
That didn't A passing wagon drowned the sound of his voice . 
He was telling her of his adventures ! cried Blix . 
Splendid ! Othello and Desdemona . 
Let's follow them ! exclaimed Condy . 
Should we ? Wouldn't it be indiscreet ? No. We are the arbiters of their fate we MUST take an interest . 
They allowed their objects to get ahead some half a block and then fell in behind . 
There was little danger of their being detected . 
The captain and K. D. B. were absorbed in each other . 
She had even taken his arm . 
They make a fine looking couple , really , said Blix . 
Where do you suppose they are going ? To another restaurant ? But this was not the case . 
Very good , excellent , highly respectable , approved Blix and Condy himself fetched a sigh of relief . 
Yes , yes , it might have been worse . 
We'll never see them again , our 'Matrimonial Objects , said Blix , and they'll never know about us but we have brought them together . 
Yes , I think we've done a good day's work . 
And now , Condy , I think we had best be thinking of home ourselves . 
I'm just beginning to get most awfully sleepy . 
Everything was wet with it . 
The asphalt was like varnished ebony . 
Indistinct masses and huge dim shadows stood for the houses on either side . 
From the eucalyptus trees and the palms the water dripped like rain . 
Far off oceanward , the fog horn was lowing like a lost gigantic bull . 
The gray bulk of a policeman the light from the street lamp reflected in his star loomed up on the corner as they descended from the car . 
Condy had intended to call his diver's story A Submarine Romance , but Blix had disapproved . 
It's too 'Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea , she had said . 
You want something much more dignified . 
There is that about you , Condy , you like to be too showy you don't know when to stop . 
But you have left off red and white scarfs , and I am very glad to see you wearing white shirt fronts instead of pink ones . 
Yes , yes , I thought it would be quieter , he had answered , as though the idea had come from him . 
Blix allowed him to think so . 
But A Victory Over Death , as the story was finally called , was a success . 
Condy was too much of a born story teller not to know when he had done something distinctly good . 
Bully , bully ! he muttered between his teeth as he finished the last paragraph . 
It's a corker ! If it's rejected everywhere , it's an out of sight yarn just the same . 
And there Condy's enthusiasm in the matter began to dwindle . 
The fine fire which had sustained him during the story s composition had died out . 
He was satisfied with his work . 
He had written a good story , and that was the end of it . 
No doubt he would send it East to the Centennial Company to morrow or the day after some time that week . 
To mail the manuscript meant quite half an hour's effort . 
He would have to buy stamps for return postage a letter would have to be written , a large envelope procured , the accurate address ascertained . 
For the moment his supplement work demanded his attention . 
He put off sending the story from day to day . 
His interest in it had abated . 
And for that matter he soon discovered he had other things to think of . 
She looked forward to the time when Condy would cease to play even with her . 
But she was too sensible and practical a girl to expect him to break a habit of years' standing in a couple of weeks . 
The thing would have to be accomplished little by little . 
At times she had misgivings as to the honesty of the course she had adopted . 
But nowadays , playing as he did with her only , Condy gambled but two or three evenings in the week , and then not for more than two hours at a time . 
Heretofore hardly an evening that had not seen him at the round table in his club's card room , whence he had not risen until long after midnight . 
Condy had told young Sargeant that he had reformed in the matter of gambling , and intended to swear off for a few months . 
Sargeant , like the thoroughbred he was , never urged him to play after that , and never spoke of the previous night's game when Condy was about . 
The other men of his set were no less thoughtful , and , though they rallied him a little at first upon his defection , soon let the matter drop . 
Condy told himself that there were plenty of good people in the world , after all . 
Every one seemed conspiring to make it easy for him , and he swore at himself for a weak kneed cad . 
Condy turned cold upon the instant , hurled the tooth brush across the room , and dropped into a chair with a groan of despair . 
It was impossible at this late hour to accept either one of the young women's invitations without offending the other . 
Well , I won't go to EITHER , that's all , he vociferated aloud to the opposite wall . 
And no sooner had this alternative occurred to him than it appeared too fascinating to be resisted . 
A weight seemed removed from his mind . 
Lord , these feel better ! he exclaimed , as he substituted the loose business suit for the formal rigidity of his evening dress . 
It was with a sensation of positive luxury that he put on a soft shirt of blue cheviot and his tan walking shoes . 
But no more red scarfs , he declared , as he knotted his black satin club before the mirror . 
Evidently Blix had seen him coming , for she opened the door herself and it suited her humor for the moment to treat him as a peddler or book agent . 
No , no , she said airily , her head in the air as she held the door . 
No , we don't want any to day . 
We HAVE the biography of Abraham Lincoln . 
Don't want to subscribe to any Home Book of Art . 
We're not artistic we use drapes in our parlors . 
Don't want 'The Wives and Mothers of Great Men . 
Pay your rent that's three months overdue , and then But Blix pulled him within the house and clapped to the door . 
Condy RIVERS ! she exclaimed , her cheeks flaming , those are our neighbors . 
What do you suppose they think ? Huh ! I'd rather have 'em think I was a rent collector than a book agent . 
But Condy's visit , begun thus gayly , soon developed along much more serious lines . 
After supper , while the light still lasted , Blix read stories to him while he smoked cigarettes in the bay window of the dining room . 
Condy's cigarette was a mere red point in the half darkness . 
The smoke drifted out of the open window in long , blue strata . 
At his elbow Blix was leaning forward , looking down upon the darkening , drowsing city , her round , strong chin propped upon her hand . 
She was just close enough for Candy to catch the sweet , delicious feminine perfume that came indefinitely from her clothes , her hair , her neck . 
Condy , how you frightened me ! exclaimed Blix , with a great start . 
No , listen I want to talk to you , to tell you something . 
Papum and I have been having some very long and serious talks since you were last here . 
What do you think , I may go away . 
The deuce you say ! exclaimed Condy , sitting suddenly upright . 
Where to , in Heaven's name ? he added and when ? and what for ? To New York , to study medicine . 
There was a silence then Condy exclaimed , waving his hands at her Oh , go right on ! Don't mind me . 
Little thing like going to New York to study medicine . 
Of course , that happens every day , a mere detail . 
I presume you'll go back and forth for your meals ? Then Blix began to explain . 
It appeared that she had two aunts , both sisters of her father one a widow , the other unmarried . 
The widow , a certain Mrs. Kihm , lived in New York , and was wealthy , and had views on women's sphere of usefulness . 
The other , Miss Bessemer , a little old maid of fifty , Condy had on rare occasions seen at the flat , where every one called her Aunt Dodd . 
She lived in that vague region of the city known as the Mission , where she owned a little property . 
From what Blix told him that evening , Condy learned that Mrs. Kihm had visited the coast a few winters previous and had taken a great fancy to Blix . 
Now it seemed that the opportunity had again presented itself . 
She's a dear old lady , Blix said not a bit strong minded , as you would think , and ever so much cleverer than most men . 
She manages all her property herself . 
For the last month she's been writing again to Papum for me to come on and stay with her three , or four years . 
She hasn't a chick nor a child , and she don't entertain or go out any , so maybe she feels lonesome . 
Of course if I studied there , Papum wouldn't think of Aunt Kihm don't you know paying for it all . 
I wouldn't go if it was that way . 
But I could stay with her and she could make a home for me while I was there if I should study anything study medicine . 
But why ! he exclaimed . 
What do you want to study to be a doctor for ? It isn't as though you had to support yourself . 
I know , I know I've not got to support myself . 
But why shouldn't I have a profession just like a man just like you , Condy ? You stop and think . 
It seemed strange to me when I first thought of it but I got thinking about it and talking it over with Papum , and I should LOVE it . 
I'd do it , not because I would have to do it , but because it would interest me . 
Condy , you know that I'm not a bit strong minded , and that I hate a masculine , unfeminine girl as much as you do . 
But a medical college , Blix ! You don't know what you are talking about . 
There's a college in New York just for women . 
Aunt Kihm sent me the prospectus , and it's one of the best in the country . 
I don't dream of practicing , you know at least , I don't think about that now . 
You're right , it would be a big thing for you , assented Condy , and I like the idea of you studying something . 
It would be the making of such a girl as you , Blix . 
And then Blix , seeing him thus acquiescent , said Well , it's all settled Papum and I both wrote last night . 
When are you going ? The first week in January . 
Well , that's not so AWFULLY soon . 
But who will take your place here ? However in the world would your father get along without you and Snooky and Howard ? Aunt Dodd is going to come . 
Sudden enough , said Condy , but it IS a great thing for you , Blix , and I'm mighty glad for you . 
Your future is all cut out for you now . 
The idea , Condy ! she protested . 
No I'm going there to study medicine . 
Oh , you don't know how enthusiastic I am over the idea ! I've bought some of the first year books already , and have been reading them . 
Really , Condy , they are even better than 'Many Inventions . 
Wish I could get East , muttered Condy gloomily . 
Blix forgot her own good fortune upon the instant . 
I do so wish you COULD , Condy ! she exclaimed . 
You are too good for a Sunday supplement . 
I know it and YOU know it , and I've heard ever so many people who have read your stories say the same thing . 
You've got it in you , Condy , to be a great story teller . 
I believe in you , and I've every confidence in you . 
But just so long as you stay here and are willing to do hack work , just so long you will be a hack writer . 
You must break from it you MUST get away . 
I know you have a good time here but there are so many things better than that and more worth while . 
You ought to make up your mind to get East , and work for that and nothing else . 
I know you want to go , but wanting isn't enough . 
Enthusiasm without energy isn't enough . 
You have enthusiasm , Condy but you MUST have energy . 
You must be willing to give up things you must make up your mind that you will go East , and then set your teeth together and do it . 
Blix , you're splendid ! he exclaimed you're fine ! You could put life into a dead man . 
You're the kind of girl that are the making of men . 
By Jove , you'd back a man up , wouldn't you ? You'd stand by him till the last ditch . 
Of course , he went on after a pause of course I ought to go to New York . 
But , Blix , suppose I went well , then what ? It isn't as though I had any income of my own , or rich aunt . 
No my only chance is 'to be discovered' by a magazine or a publishing house or somebody , and get a bid of some kind . 
Well , there is the Centennial Company . 
They have taken an interest in you , Condy . 
You must follow that right up and keep your name before them all the time . 
Nothing seemed to interest him . 
He sat down to his desk and attacked his work , but copy would not come . 
The sporting editor and his inane jokes harassed him beyond expression . 
Just the sight of the clipping editor's back was an irritation . 
The office boy was a mere incentive to profanity . 
There was no spring in Condy that morning , no elasticity , none of his natural buoyancy . 
As the day wore on , his ennui increased his luncheon at the club was tasteless , tobacco had lost its charm . 
He ordered a cocktail in the wine room , and put it aside with a wry face . 
The afternoon was one long tedium . 
He craved diversion , amusement , excitement . 
Something there was that he wanted with all his heart and soul yet he was quite unable to say what it was . 
What was it ? He could not say . 
For half an hour he imagined he was going to be sick . 
Sargeant joined him over his coffee and cigarette , but declined to go with him to the theatre . 
Another game on to night ? asked Condy . 
I suppose so , admitted the other . 
I guess I'll join you to night , said Condy . 
I've had the blue devils since morning , and I've got to have something to drive them off . 
Don't let me urge you , you know , returned Sargeant . 
Oh , that's all right ! Condy assured him . 
My time's about up , anyways . 
'Despatch from the managing editor . 
Some special detail or other . 
For the first time since the previous evening Condy felt his spirits rise as he set off toward the Washington Street hill . 
It stayed with him all through the week , and told upon his work . 
As a result , three of his articles were thrown out by the editor . 
We can't run such rot as that in the paper , the chief had said . 
Can't you give us a story ? Oh , I've got a kind of a yarn you can run if you like , answered Condy , his week's depression at its very lowest . 
A Victory Over Death was published in the following Sunday's supplement of the Times , with illustrations by one of the staff artists . 
It attracted not the least attention . 
Just before he went to bed the Sunday evening of its appearance , Condy read it over again for the last time . 
It's a rotten failure , he muttered gloomily as he cast the paper from him . 
I wonder what Blix will think of it . 
I wonder if I amount to a hill of beans . 
I wonder WHAT she wants to go East for , anyway . 
Chapter IX The old fashioned Union Street cable car , with its low , comfortable outside seats , put Blix and Condy down just inside the Presidio Government Reservation . 
The day could not have been more desirable . 
It was a little after ten of a Monday morning , Condy's weekly holiday . 
The air was neither cool nor warm , effervescent merely , brisk and full of the smell of grass and of the sea . 
The sky was a speckless sheen of pale blue . 
To their right , and not far off , was the bay , blue as indigo . 
The Reservation itself was delightful . 
Here on the parade ground a soldier , his coat and vest removed , was batting grounders and flies to a half dozen of his fellows . 
Over by the stables , strings of horses , all of the same color , were being curried and cleaned . 
A young lieutenant upon a bicycle spun silently past . 
An officer came from his front gate , his coat unbuttoned and a briar in his teeth . 
The walks and roads were flanked with lines of black painted cannon balls inverted pieces of abandoned ordnance stood at corners . 
From a distance came the mellow snarling of a bugle . 
Blix and Condy had planned a long walk for that day . 
They were to go out through the Presidio Reservation , past the barracks and officers' quarters , and on to the old fort at the Golden Gate . 
Condy had insisted upon wearing his bicycle outfit for the occasion , and , moreover , carried a little satchel , which , he said , contained a pair of shoes . 
But Blix was as sweet as a rose that morning , all in tailor made black but for the inevitable bands of white satin wrapped high and tight about her neck . 
Bernard dog collar did duty as a belt . 
She had disdained a veil , and her yellow hair was already blowing about her smooth pink cheeks . 
At every moment and at every turn they noted things that interested them , and to which they called each other's attention . 
Look , Condy ! said Blix . 
What's that building down there on the shore of the bay the one with the flagstaff ? I think that must be the lifeboat station . 
I wonder if we could go down and visit it . 
I think it would be good fun . 
The station was close at hand . 
To reach it they had but to leave the crazy board walk that led on toward the fort , and cross a few hundred yards of sand dune . 
Condy opened the gate that broke the line of evergreen hedge around the little two story house , and promptly unchained a veritable pandemonium of dogs . 
Inside , the place was not without a certain charm of its own . 
A cat or two dozed upon the window sills in the sun . 
Upon a sort of porch overhead , two of the crew paced up and down in a manner that at once suggested the poop . 
Here and there was a gleam of highly polished red copper or brass trimmings . 
Condy rapped loudly at the front door . 
It was opened by Captain Jack . 
Captain Jack , and no other only now he wore a blue sweater and a leather visored cap , with the letters U. S. L. B. S. around the band . 
Not an instant was given them for preparation . 
The thing had happened with the abruptness of a transformation scene at a theatre . 
Condy's knock had evoked a situation . 
Speech was stricken from their mouths . 
For a moment they were bereft even of action , and stood there on the threshold , staring open mouthed and open eyed at the sudden reappearance of their matrimonial object . 
Condy was literally dumb in the end it was Blix who tided them over the crisis . 
We were just going by just taking a walk , she explained , and we thought we'd like to see the station . 
Is it all right ? Can we look around ? Why , of course , assented the Captain with great cordiality . 
You just happened to hit it only it's mighty few visitors we ever have , he added . 
While Condy was registering for himself and Blix , they managed to exchange a lightning glance . 
It was evident the Captain did not recognize them . 
The situation readjusted itself , even promised to be of extraordinary interest . 
And for that matter it made little difference whether the captain remembered them or not . 
This is a quiet station . 
People don't fetch out this way very often , and we're not called out very often , either . 
We're an inside post , you see , and usually we don't get a call unless the sea's so high that the Cliff House station can't launch their boat . 
By the way , let's see I ain't just caught your names yet . 
Well , my name's Rivers , said Condy , and this is Miss Bessemer . 
We're both from the city . 
Happy to know you , sir happy to know you , miss , he returned , pulling off his cap . 
My name's Hoskins , but you can just call me Captain Jack . 
I'm so used to it that I don't kind of answer to the other . 
Captain Jack had been everywhere , had seen everything , and had done most of the things worth doing , including a great many things that he had far better have left undone . 
But on this latter point the Captain seemed to be innocently and completely devoid of a moral sense of right and wrong . 
The trade to Peruvian insurgents of condemned rifles was to be regretted only because the ring manipulating it was broken up . 
He had been born , so he told them , in Winchester , in England , and Heaven save the mark ! had been brought up with a view of taking orders . 
For some time he was a choir boy in the great Winchester Cathedral then , while yet a lad , had gone to sea . 
He had been boat steerer on a New Bedford whaler , and struck his first whale when only sixteen . 
The star of the troupe , he told them , was the lady with the iron jore . 
We busted in Stockton , and she gave me her diamonds to pawn . 
I pawned 'em , and kept back something in the hand for myself and hooked it to San Francisco . 
Strike me straight if she didn't follow me , that iron jored piece met me one day in front of the Bush Street Theatre , and horsewhipped me properly . 
Now , just think of that and he laughed as though it was the best kind of a joke . 
Yes , he said , you've led such a life of action , I should think this station would be pretty dull for you . 
I got into a scrape down at Libertad , in Mexico , that made talk , and I'm waiting for that to die down some . 
You see , it was this way . 
Mindful of their experience with the mate of the whaleback , Condy and Blix were all attention in an instant . 
Captain Jack began it with his experience as a restaurant keeper during the boom days in Seattle , Washington . 
There was a church pulpit aboard that they were taking down to Mazatlan for some chapel or other , and this here pulpit was lashed on deck aft . 
I ain't never going to forgit the day he gave us Portia's speech . 
We were just under the tropic , and the day was a scorcher . 
Laugh , I tell you I was sore with it . 
Lord , how we guyed him ! An' the more we guyed and the more we laughed , the more serious he got and the madder he grew . 
He said he was interpretin' the hidden meanin' of the lines . 
Heavens and earth , what a yarn ! he exclaimed almost in a whisper . 
Blix drew a long , tremulous breath and sat back upon the upturned box , looking around her as though she had but that moment been awakened . 
Yes , sir , said the Captain , rolling a cigarette . 
Yes , sir , those were great days . 
Get down there around the line in those little , out o' the way republics along the South American coast , and things happen to you . 
You hold a man's life in the crook of your forefinger , an' nothing's done by halves . 
Why , you're living sixty to the minute when you're playing a game like that ! Oh , I ain't dead yet ! answered the Captain . 
I got a few schemes left that I could get fun out of . 
How can you wait a minute ! exclaimed Blix breathlessly . 
There's a good many reasons one of 'em is that I've just been married . 
Chapter X Mum mar married ! gasped Condy , swallowing something in his throat . 
Blix rose to her feet . 
Just been MARRIED ! she repeated , a little frightened . 
Why why why how DELIGHTFUL ! Yes yes , mumbled Condy . 
I congratulate you ! Come in come back to the station , said the Captain jovially , and I'll introduce you to m' wife . 
We were married only last Sunday . 
Why , yes yes , of course , we'd be delighted , vociferated the two conspirators a little hysterically . 
She's a mighty fine little woman , declared the Captain , as he rolled the door of the boat house to its place and preceded them up the gravel walk to the station . 
Of course she is , responded Blix . 
For Heaven's sake , Condy ! she had time to whisper before they arrived in the hallway of the station . 
But fortunately they were allowed a minute or so to recover themselves and prepare for what was coming . 
No sooner had he gone than the two turned to each other . 
Well ! WELL ! We're in for it now . 
But we must see it through , Condy act just as natural as you can , and we're all right . 
But supposing SHE recognizes us ! Supposing she does what then . 
How ARE they to know that we wrote the letters ? Sh , Blix , not so loud ! They know by now that THEY didn't . 
But it seems that it hasn't made any difference to them they are married . 
And besides , they wouldn't speak about putting 'personals' in the paper to us . 
They would never let anybody know that . 
Do you suppose they could possibly suspect ? I'm sure they couldn't . 
Keep perfectly calm , and we're saved . 
Suppose it isn't K. D. B. , after all ? But it was , of course , and she recognized them in an instant . 
Kitty ! exclaimed Captain Jack , seized again with an unexplainable mirth , here's some young folks come out to see the place an' I want you to know 'em . 
Mr. Rivers , this is m' wife , Kitty , and lessee , miss , I don't rightly remember your name . 
Bessemer ! exclaimed Condy and Blix in a breath . 
Oh ! exclaimed K. D. B. , you were in the restaurant the night that the Captain and I I that is yes , I'm quite sure I've seen you before . 
She turned from one to the other . 
Yes , yes , in Luna's restaurant , wasn't it ? said Condy desperately . 
It seems to me I do just barely remember . 
And wasn't the Captain there ? Blix ventured . 
I forgot my stick , I remember , continued Condy . 
I came back for it and just as I was going out it seems to me I saw you two at a table near the door . 
He thought it best to allow their matrimonial objects to believe he had not seen them before . 
Yes , yes , we were there , answered K. D. B. tactfully . 
We dine there almost every Monday night . 
Blix guessed that K. D. B. would prefer to have the real facts of the situation ignored , and determined she should have the chance to change the conversation if she wished . 
What a delicious supper one has there ! she said . 
Can't say I like Mexican cooking myself , answered K. D. B. , forgetting that they dined there every Monday night . 
Plain United States is good enough for me . 
Suddenly Captain Jack turned abruptly to Condy , exclaiming Oh , you was the chap that called the picture of that schooner a barkentine . 
Yes WASN'T that a barkentine ? he answered innocently . 
Barkentine your EYE ! spluttered the Captain . 
Why , that was a schooner as plain as a pie plate . 
But ten minutes later the ordeal was over , and Blix and Condy , once more breathing easily , were on their walk again . 
Married ! murmured Condy , putting both hands to his head . 
We've done it , we've done it now . 
Well , what of it ? declared Blix , a little defiantly . 
I think it's all right . 
You can see the Captain is in love with her , and she with him . 
No , we've nothing to reproach ourselves with . 
But but but so sudden ! whispered Condy , all aghast . 
That's what makes me faint the suddenness of it . 
It shows how much they are in love , how how readily they adapted themselves to each other . 
No , it's all right . 
They seemed to like us actually . 
Well , they had better if they knew the truth . 
Without us they never would have met . 
Wouldn't it be fun to call on them to get regularly acquainted with them ! They might ask us to dinner some time . 
He don't seem to have any sense of right and wrong at all . 
He might have been lying , Condy . 
And all unknowingly they were a Romance in themselves . 
Cynicism , old age , and the weariness of all things done had no place in the world in which they walked . 
They still had their illusions , all the keenness of their sensations , all the vividness of their impressions . 
The simple things of the world , the great , broad , primal emotions of the race stirred in them . 
As they swung along , going toward the ocean , their brains were almost as empty of thought or of reflection as those of two fine , clean animals . 
They were all for the immediate sensation they did not think they FELT . 
Their life was sweet to them every hour was one glad effervescence . 
The fact that the ocean was blue was a matter for rejoicing . 
It was good to be alive on that royal morning . 
Condy even forgot , or rather disdained on such a morning as that , to piece together and rearrange Captain Jack's yarns into story form . 
To look at the sea and the green hills , to watch the pink on Blix's cheek and her yellow hair blowing across her eyes and lips , was better than thinking . 
Life was better than literature . 
To live was better than to read one live human being was better than ten thousand Shakespeares an act was better than a thought . 
Life was better than literature , and love was the best thing in life . 
Why , all his days for the last few months had been full of the love of her . 
Since then , in the charming , unconventional life they had led , everything had been changed . 
The beach was solitary not a soul was in sight . 
The air was full of the prolonged thunder of the surf , and at intervals sea birds passed overhead with an occasional piping cry . 
Wreckage was tumbled about here and there and innumerable cocoanut shards , huge , brown cups of fuzzy bark , lay underfoot and in the crevices of the rocks . 
Blix refused to allow Condy to help her in the least . 
She was quite as active and strong as he , and clambered from rock to rock and over the shattered scantling of the flume with the vigor and agility of a young boy . 
And she was never done talking a veritable chatterbox . 
She saw everything and talked about everything she saw , quite indifferent as to whether or no Condy listened . 
Now it was a queer bit of seaweed , now it was a group of gulls clamoring over a dead fish , now a purple starfish , now a breaker of unusual size . 
Her splendid vitality carried her away . 
She was excited , alive to her very finger tips , vibrant to the least sensation , quivering to the least impression . 
Let's get up here and sit down somewhere , said Condy , at length . 
We might be a thousand miles away from the city , for all the looks of it , mightn't we , Condy ? said Blix , after a while . 
And I'm that HUNGRY ! It must be nearly noon . 
Blix fairly crowed with delight , clasping her hands upon her knees , and rocking to and fro where she sat upon the log . 
Oh , Condy , and you thought of a LUNCH you said it was shoes and you remembered I loved stuffed olives , too and a book to read . 
What is it 'The Seven Seas . 
No , I never WAS so happy . 
But the mouth organ what's that for ? To play on . 
But it was all one with them they ate as though at a banquet , and Blix even took off her hat and hung it upon one of the nearby bushes . 
Of course Condy had forgotten a corkscrew . 
Wine , music , literature , and feasting , observed Condy . 
We're getting regularly luxurious , just like Sardine apalus . 
But Condy himself had suddenly entered into an atmosphere of happiness , the like of which he had never known or dreamed of before . 
He loved Blix he had just discovered it . 
He loved her because she liked his books , appreciating the things therein that he appreciated , liking what he liked , disapproving of what he condemned . 
He loved her because she was nineteen , and because she was so young and unspoiled and was happy just because the ocean was blue and the morning fine . 
She had told him she did not love him . 
Condy remembered that perfectly well . 
She was sincere in the matter she did not love him . 
That subject had been once and for all banished from their intercourse . 
And it was because of that very reason that their companionship of the last three or four months had been so charming . 
She looked upon him merely as a chum . 
But he must keep all this to himself . 
If he spoke to her , told her of how he loved her , it would spoil and end their companionship upon the instant . 
They had both agreed upon that they had tried the other , and it had worked out . 
As lovers they had wearied of each other as chums they had been perfectly congenial , thoroughly and completely happy . 
It was a hard situation . 
What are you frowning so about , and clinching your fists ? And you're pale , too . 
What's gone wrong ? He shot a glance at her , and bestirred himself sharply . 
Isn't this a jolly little corner ? he said . 
Blix , how long is it before you go ? Six weeks from to morrow . 
And you're going to be gone four years four years ! Maybe you never will come back . 
Can't tell what will happen in four years . 
Where's the blooming mouth organ ? But the mouth organ was full of crumbs . 
Condy could not play on it . 
To all his efforts it responded only by gasps , mournfulest death rattles , and lamentable wails . 
Condy hurled it into the sea . 
Well , where's the blooming book , then ? he demanded . 
You're sitting on it , Blix . 
Here , read something in it . 
No you read to me . 
No the least you can do is to read to me . 
Here , we'll match for it . 
Condy drew a dime from his pocket , and Blix a quarter from her purse . 
You're matching me , she said . 
You and I have never played a game of poker yet that I've not won every cent of money you had . 
Yes and what are you doing with it all ? Spending it , she returned loftily gloves and veils and lace pins all kinds of things . 
But Condy knew the way she spoke that this was not true . 
Blix listened intently , but Condy could not have told of what he was reading . 
Living was better than reading , life was better than literature , and his new found love for her was poetry enough for him . 
Never before in all his life had he been so happy never before had he been so troubled . 
He began to jumble the lines and words as he read , over running periods , even turning two pages at once . 
What a splendid line ! Blix exclaimed . 
What line what what are you talking about ? Blix , let's always remember to day . 
Let's make a promise , no matter what happens or where we are , let's always write to each other on the anniversary of to day . 
What do you say ? Yes I'll promise and you I'll promise faithfully . 
You're sitting on it again . 
Confound the book , anyway ! Let's walk some more . 
We've a long ways to go if we're to get home in time for supper . 
Let's go to Luna's for supper . 
I never saw such a girl as you to think of ways for spending money . 
What kind of a purse proud plutocrat do you think I am ? I've only seventy five cents left . 
How much have you got ? Blix had fifty five cents in her purse , and they had a grave council over their finances . 
They had just enough for car fare and two suppers Mexican , with ten cents left over . 
That's for Richard's tip , said Blix . 
That's for my CIGAR , he retorted . 
You made ME give him fifty cents . 
You said it was the least I could offer him noblesse oblige . 
Well , then , I COULDN'T offer him a dime , don't you see ? I'll tell him we are broke this time . 
Some fifteen minutes later they reached the golf links . 
We can go across the links , said Condy , and strike any number of car lines on the other side . 
They left the road and struck across the links , Condy smoking his new lighted pipe . 
He was sitting at a desk in one of the further corners of the room and shut off by a great Japanese screen . 
He was in his shirt sleeves , his hair was tumbled , his fingers ink stained , and his face a little pale . 
Since late in the evening he had been steadily writing . 
Three chapters of In Defiance of Authority were done , and he was now at work on the fourth . 
At once he had set to work upon it , with an enthusiasm that , with shut teeth , he declared would not be lacking in energy . 
The story would have to be written out of his business hours . 
That meant he would have to give up his evenings to it . 
The first two chapters had run off his pen with delightful ease . 
Condy soon found that there was but one way to go about the business . 
At times the tale , apparently out of sheer perversity , would come to a full stop . 
There was no pleasure in it for him . 
It was all work hard , disagreeable , laborious work and no juggling with phrases , no false notions as to the delight of creation , could make it appear otherwise . 
And for what , he muttered as he rose , rolled up his sheaf of manuscript , and put on his coat what do I do it for , I don't know . 
It was beyond question that , had he begun his novel three months before this time , Condy would have long since abandoned the hateful task . 
But Blix had changed all that . 
A sudden male force had begun to develop in Condy . 
A master emotion had shaken him , and he had commenced to see and to feel the serious , more abiding , and perhaps the sterner side of life . 
Blix had steadied him , there was no denying that . 
He was not quite the same boyish , hairbrained fellow who had made a buffoon of himself in the Chinese restaurant , three months before . 
The cars had stopped running by the time Condy reached the street . 
He walked home and flung himself to bed , his mind tired , his nerves unstrung , and all the blood of his body apparently concentrated in his brain . 
Working at night after writing all day long was telling upon him , and he knew it . 
What with his work and his companionship with Blix , Condy soon began to drop out of his wonted place in his set . 
Hands , Carter , and Eckert were at one of the windows over their after dinner cigars and liqueurs . 
I say , said Eckert suddenly , who's that girl across the street there the one in black , just going by that furrier's sign ? I've seen her somewhere before . 
Know who it is ? That's Miss Bessemer , isn't it ? said George Hands , leaning forward . 
Rather a stunning looking girl . 
Yes , that's Travis Bessemer , assented Jack Carter adding , a moment later , it's too bad about that girl . 
What's the matter ? asked Eckert . 
Isn't ANYTHING the matter as far as I know , only somehow the best people have dropped her . 
She USED to be received everywhere . 
Come to think , I HAVEN'T seen her out much this season , said Eckert . 
But I heard she had bolted from 'Society' with the big S , and was going East going to study medicine , I believe . 
Oh , well , come , growled George Hands , Travis Bessemer is not declassee . 
I didn't say she was , answered Carter but she has made herself talked about a good deal lately . 
Going around with Rivers , as she does , isn't the most discreet thing in the world . 
You fellows should have been there , he went on , in perfect good humor , turning to the others . 
You missed a good little scene . 
They had their old clothes on , and they were dusty and muddy . 
Not a bit of it didn't lose her poise for a moment . 
She bowed to my sister and to me , as though from the top of a drag , by Jove ! and as though she were fresh from Redfern and Virot . 
You know a girl that can manage herself that way is a thoroughbred . 
Little Johnnie mumbled and flushed and stammered and backed off and it was well that he did , because Rivers had begun to get red around the wattles . 
I say the little girl is a thoroughbred , and my sister wants to give her a dinner as soon as she comes out . 
But Johnnie says she's declassee , so may be my sister had better think it over . 
I didn't say she was declassee , exclaimed Carter . 
I only said she would do well to be more careful . 
Sargeant shifted his cigar to the other corner of his mouth , one eye shut to avoid the smoke . 
One might say as much of lots of people , he answered . 
I don't like your tone ! Carter flared out . 
But he had had a hard day on the Times , Supplement , and his brain , like an overdriven horse , refused to work . 
In half an hour he had not written a paragraph . 
I can go at it better to morrow . 
See how you like this last chapter . 
Blix was enthusiastic over In Defiance of Authority . 
Condy had told her the outline of the story , and had read to her each chapter as he finished it . 
It's the best thing you have ever done , Condy , and you know it . 
I suppose it has faults , but I don't care anything about them . 
It's the story itself that's so interesting . 
After that first chapter of the boom restaurant and the exiles' club , nobody would want to lay the book down . 
You're doing the best work of your life so far , and you stick to it . 
It's grinding out copy for the Supplement at the same time that takes all the starch out of me . 
You've no idea what it means to write all day , and then sit down and write all evening . 
I WISH you could get off the 'Times , said Blix . 
You're just giving the best part of your life to hack work , and NOW it's interfering with your novel . 
But they won't give me a vacation . 
I was sounding the editor on it day before yesterday . 
No I'll have to manage somehow to swing the two together . 
Well , let's not talk shop now . 
Do you want to play poker ? They played for upward of an hour that evening , and Condy , as usual , lost . 
His ill luck was positively astonishing . 
During the last two months he had played poker with Blix on an average of three or four evenings in the week . 
and at the close of every game it was Blix who had all the chips . 
Blix had come to know the game quite as well , if not better , than he . 
She could almost invariably tell when Condy held a good hand , but on her part could assume an air of indifference absolutely inscrutable . 
Cards ? said Condy , picking up the deck after the deal . 
I'll stand pat , Condy . 
The deuce you say , he answered , with a stare . 
I'll pass it up to you , continued Blix gravely . 
Well well , I'll bet you five chips . 
Condy studied his hand , laid down the cards , picked them up again , scratched his head , and moved uneasily in his place . 
Then he threw down two high pairs . 
No , he said I won't see you . 
What did you have ? Let's see , just for the fun of it . 
Blix spread her cards on the table . 
Not a blessed thing ! exclaimed Condy . 
I might have known it . 
There's my last dollar gone , too . 
Lend me fifty cents , Blix . 
Why , what a little niggard ! he exclaimed aggrievedly . 
I'll pay them all back to you . 
Now , why should I lend you money to play against me ? I'll not give you a chip and , besides , I don't want to play any more . 
I've a mind to stop for good stop playing even with you . 
Blix gave a little cry of joy . 
I would much rather have you play every night , down there at your club , than break your promise . 
Condy fell silent , biting thoughtfully at the knuckle of a forefinger . 
Think twice about it , Condy , urged Blix because this would be for always . 
Condy hesitated then , abstractedly and as though speaking to himself It's different now . 
Before we took that three months ago , I don't say . 
He gave her his hand . 
That settles it , he said quietly . 
I'll never gamble again , Blix . 
Blix gripped his hand hard , then jumped up , and , with a quick breath of satisfaction , gathered up the cards and chips and flung them into the fireplace . 
Oh , I'm so glad that's over with , she exclaimed , her little eyes dancing . 
I've pretended to like it , but I've hated it all the time . 
You don't know HOW I've hated it ! What men can see in it to make them sit up all night long is beyond me . 
And you truly mean , Condy , that you never will gamble again ? Yes , I know you mean it this time . 
Oh , I'm so happy I could sing ! Good Heavens , don't do that ! he cried quickly . 
You're a nice , amiable girl , Blix , even if you're not pretty , and you Oh , bother you ! she retorted but you promise ? On my honor . 
That's enough , she said quietly . 
But even when loafing as he was this evening , Condy could not rid himself of the thought and recollection of his novel resting or writing , it haunted him . 
Otherwise he would not have been the story writer that he was . 
From now on until he should set down the last sentence , the thing was never to let him alone , never to allow him a moment's peace . 
He could think of nothing else , could talk of nothing else every faculty of his brain , every sense of observation or imagination incessantly concentrated themselves upon this one point . 
Ought to be worked up , you know . 
I've never saved a cent out of my salary . 
When I stop , my pay stops , and wherewithal would I be fed ? What are you looking for in that drawer matches ? Here , I've got a match . 
Blix faced about at the sideboard , shutting the drawer by leaning against it . 
In both hands she held one of the delft sugar bowls . 
Disregarding all Condy's inquiries , she counted it , making little piles of the gold and silver and nickel pieces . 
She thrust it all toward him , across the table . 
There , she said , is your wherewithal . 
My wherewithal ! he muttered . 
It ought to be enough for over a month . 
Where did you get all that ? Whose is it ? It's your money , Condy . 
You loaned it to me , and now it has come in very handy . 
I LOANED it to you ? It's the money I won from you during the time you've been playing poker with me . 
Yes , you will , she told him . 
Why , the very idea ! he vociferated , his hands deep in his pockets , his face scarlet . 
It's it's preposterous , Blix ! I won't let you TALK about it even I won't touch a nickel of that money . 
But , Blix , you're you're the finest woman I ever knew . 
You're a man's woman , that's what you are . 
If you loved a man , you'd be a regular pal to him you'd back him up , you'd stand by him till the last gun was fired . 
I could do ANYTHING if a WOMAN like you cared for me . 
Why , Blix , I you haven't any idea He cleared his throat , stopping abruptly . 
But you must take this money , she answered YOUR money . 
If you didn't , Condy , it would make me out nothing more nor less than a gambler . 
I wouldn't have dreamed of playing cards with you if I had ever intended to keep one penny of your money . 
You don't have to stay on the 'Times' now . 
You can't do your novel justice while you are doing your hack work at the same time , and I do so want 'In Defiance of Authority' to be a success . 
I've faith in you , Condy . 
I know if you got the opportunity you would make a success . 
But you and I have played like two men playing , exclaimed Condy . 
Then I WOULD have been a gambler . 
That is just the way I would feel about it . 
If you care for me at all , you'll take it . 
The editor of the Sunday Supplement put his toothpick behind his ear and fixed Condy with his eyeglasses . 
Well , it's like this , Rivers , he said . 
Of course , you know your own business best . 
If you stay on here with us , it will be all right . 
But I may as well tell you that I don't believe I can hold your place for a month . 
I can't get a man in here to do your work for just a month , and then fire him out at the end of that time . 
Then you think my chance of coming back here would be pretty slim if I leave for a month now ? That's right . 
Condy hesitated then he rose . 
I'll take the chance , he announced . 
To Blix , that evening , as he told her of the affair , he said It's neck or nothing now , Blix . 
A score of times each day he came to a final , definite , negative decision and a score of times reopened the whole subject . 
She had no compunction in leaving him to go away to New York , perhaps never to return . 
In less than a month now all their companionship was to end , and he would probably see the last of her . 
But every day every hour that they were together made it harder for him to keep himself within bounds . 
What with this trouble on his mind and the grim determination with which he held to his work , Condy changed rapidly . 
Blix had steadied him , and a certain earnestness and seriousness of purpose , a certain STRENGTH he had not known before , came swiftly into being . 
Was Blix to go away , leave him , perhaps for all time , and not know how much he cared ? Would he speak before she went ? Condy did not know . 
It was a question that circumstances would help him to decide . 
But days went by , the time set for Blix's departure drew nearer and nearer , and yet she gave him not the slightest sign . 
These two interests had now absorbed his entire life for the moment his love for Blix , and his novel . 
Little by little In Defiance of Authority took shape . 
had been introduced , and the expedition was ready to put to sea . 
But here a new difficulty was encountered . 
What do I know about ships ? Condy confessed to Blix . 
If Billy Isham is going to command a filibustering schooner , I've got to know something about a schooner appear to , anyhow . 
I've got to know nautical lingo , the real thing , you know . 
I don't believe a REAL sailor ever in his life said 'belay there , or 'avast . 
We'll have to go out and see Captain Jack get some more technical detail . 
This move was productive of the most delightful results . 
Captain Jack was all on fire with interest the moment that Condy and Blix told him of the idea . 
An' you're going to put Billy Isham in a book . 
Well , strike me straight , that's a snorkin' good idea . 
I've always said that all Billy needed was a ticket seller an' an advance agent , an' he was a whole show in himself . 
We're going to send it East , said Blix , as soon as it's finished , and have it published . 
Well , it ought to make prime readin' , Miss an' that's a good fetchin' title , 'In Defiance of Authority . 
Regularly Wednesday and Sunday afternoons , Blix and Condy came out to the lifeboat station . 
Captain Jack received them in sweater and visored cap , and ushered them into the front room . 
Well , how's the yarn getting on ? Captain Jack would ask . 
Then Condy would read the last chapter while the Captain paced the floor , frowning heavily , smoking cigars , listening to every word . 
Condy told the story in the first person , as if Billy Isham's partner were narrating scenes and events in which he himself had moved . 
Condy called this protagonist Burke Cassowan , and was rather proud of the name . 
But the captain would none of it . 
Cassowan , the protagonist , was simply Our Mug . 
Now , Condy would say , notebook in hand , now , Cap . 
, we've got down to Mazatlan . 
Now I want to sort of organize the expedition in this next chapter . 
I see , I see , Captain Jack would exclaim , interested at once . 
Wait a bit till I take off my shoes . 
Well , now , lessee . 
First thing Our Mug does when he gets to Mazatlan is to communicate his arrival to Senora Estrada telegraphs , you know and , by the way , have him use a cipher . 
What kind of cipher ? Count three letters on from the right letter , see . 
Take now such a cipher word as ULIOH . 
Count three letters back from each letter of ULIOH , and it'll spell RIFLE . 
You can make up a lot of despatches like that , just to have the thing look natural savvy ? Out of sight ! muttered Condy , making a note . 
Then Our Mug and Billy Isham start getting a crew . 
And Our Mug , he buys the sextant there in Mazatlan the sextant , that got out of order and spoiled everything . 
Or , no don't have it a sextant have it a quadrant an old fashioned , ebony quadrant . 
Have Billy Isham buy it because it was cheap . 
How did it get out of order , Captain Jack ? inquired Blix . 
That would be a good technical detail , wouldn't it , Condy ? Well , it's like this . 
And here's another point , Cap . 
Let's have him get track of something that's worth a fortune something novel . 
Yes , yes I see the idea , answered the Captain , striding over the floor with great thuds of his stockinged feet . 
Now , lessee let me think , he began , rubbing all his hair the wrong way . 
We want something new and queer , something that ain't ever been written up before . 
Now Our Mug nor Billy Isham either they ain't born yesterday . 
No , sir they're right next to themselves ! They figure this way . 
This here whiskey's been kept fifty years without being moved . 
Now , what do you suppose seven thousand quart bottles of fifty year old whiskey would be worth ? Why , twenty dollars a quart wouldn't be too fancy . 
So there you are there's your treasure . 
Our Mug and Billy Isham have only got to dig through twenty feet of sand to pick up a hundred thousand dollars , IF THEY CAN FIND THE SCHOONER . 
Blix clapped her hands with a little cry of delight , and Condy smote a knee , exclaiming By Jove ! that's as good as Loudon Dodds' opium ship ! Why , Cap . 
, you're a treasure in yourself for a fellow looking for stories . 
smoking coffee and pickles that K. D. B. served in the little , brick paved kitchen in the back of the station . 
The crew messed in their quarters overhead . 
K. D. B. herself was not uninteresting . 
Her respectability incased her like armor plate , and she never laughed without putting three fingers to her lips . 
She told them that she had at one time been a costume reader . 
A costume reader ? Yes reading extracts from celebrated authors in the appropriate costume of the character . 
It used to pay very well , and it was very refined . 
I used to do 'In a Balcony , by Mister Browning , and 'Laska , the same evening ! and it always made a hit . 
I'd do 'In a Balcony' first , and I'd put on a Louis Quinze the fifteenth gown and wig to match over a female cowboy outfit . 
When I'd finished 'In a Balcony , I'd do an exit , and shunt the gown and wig to match , and come on as 'Laska , with thunder noises off . 
It was one of the strongest effects in my repertoire , and it always got me a curtain call . 
Upon their first visit she elected to talk upon the Alps mountains . 
I never met such a person , man or woman , in all my life . 
In some sea novel he remembered to have come across the expression garboard streak , and from the context guessed it was to be applied to a detail of a vessel's construction . 
In an unguarded moment he had written that his schooner's name was painted in showy gilt letters upon her garboard streak . 
What's the garboard streak , Condy ? Blix had asked , when he had read the chapter to her . 
That's where they paint her name , he declared promptly . 
I don't know exactly , but I like the sound of it . 
But the next day , when he was reading this same chapter to Captain Jack , the latter suddenly interrupted with an exclamation as of acute physical anguish . 
What's that ? Read that last over again , he demanded . 
'When they had come within a few boat's lengths , read Condy , 'they were able to read the schooner's name , painted in showy gilt letters upon her garboard streak . 
My God ! gasped the Captain , clasping his head . 
Then , with a shout Garboard streak ! garboard streak ? Don't you know that the garboard streak is the last plank next the keel ? You mean counter , not garboard streak . 
One would have believed that she had actually been at the place . 
But when she changed the subject to the science of fortification , Blix could no longer restrain herself . 
But Condy had caught sight of a half filled book shelf against the opposite wall , and had been suddenly smitten with an inspiration . 
On a leaf of his notebook he wrote Try her on the G's and H's , and found means to show it furtively to Blix . 
I thought it was an island . 
Oh , no it's a fortress . 
They have a castle there a castle , something like well , like the old Schloss at Heidelberg . 
Did you ever hear about or read about Heidelberg University ? But K. D. B. was all abroad now . 
Gibraltar and Heidelberg were unknown subjects to her , as were also inoculation , Japan , and Kosciusko . 
Above the G's she was sound below that point her ignorance was benighted . 
But what is it , Condy ? demanded Blix , as soon as they were alone . 
I've the idea , he answered , chuckling . 
Wait till after Sunday to see if I'm right then I'll tell you . 
It's a dollar to a paper dime , K. D. B. will have something for us by Sunday , beginning with an I. And she had . 
Right ! right ! Condy shouted gleefully , as he and Blix were on their way home . 
She's done with Ash Bol , Bol Car , and all those , and has worked through Cod Dem , and Dem Eve . 
She's down to Hor Kin now , and she'll go through the whole lot before she's done Kin Mag , Mag Mot , Mot Pal , and all the rest . 
The Encyclopaedia ? Don't you see it ? No wonder she didn't know beans about Gibraltar ! She hadn't come to the G's by then . 
And she gets the volumes on the instahnent plan , don't you see ? Reads the leading articles , and then springs 'em on us . 
To know things and talk about em , that's her idea of being cultured . 
'One must have an education . 
They saw each other every day . 
His coat was off and the stump of a cigar was between his teeth . 
At his elbow was the rectangular block of his manuscript . 
Then at length he took a fresh penful of ink , squared his elbows , drew closer to the desk . 
She insisted that it should go off that very day , and herself wrote the directions upon the outside wrapper . 
Then the two went down together to the Wells Fargo office , and In Defiance of Authority was sent on its journey across the continent . 
Now , she said , as they came out of the express office and stood for a moment upon the steps , now there's nothing to do but wait for the Centennial Company . 
I do so hope we'll get their answer before I go away . 
They OUGHT to take it . 
It's just what they asked for . 
Don't you think they'll take it , Condy ? Oh , bother that ! answered Condy . 
I don't care whether they take it or not . 
How long now is it before you go , Blix ? Chapter XIII A week passed then another . 
The year was coming to a close . 
In ten days Blix would be gone . 
Blix was to leave on the second day of January . 
Hers was a temperament admirably suited to the study she had chosen self reliant , cool , and robust . 
But it was not easy for her to go . 
Never before had Blix been away from her home never for longer than a week had she been separated from her father , nor from Howard and Snooky . 
She was going out into a new life , a life of work and of study , a harsher life than she had yet known . 
Her father , her friends , her home all these were to be left behind . 
It was not surprising that Blix should be daunted at the prospect of so great a change in her life , now so close at hand . 
But Condy was thoroughly unhappy . 
Those wonderful three months were at an end . 
In less than a week now she would be gone . 
He would see the last of her . 
The months that were to follow would be one long ache , one long , harsh , colorless grind without her . 
How was he to get through that first evening that he must pass alone ? And she did not care for him . 
Condy at last knew this to be so . 
Even the poor solace of knowing that she , too , was unhappy was denied him . 
She had never loved him , and never would . 
He was a chum to her , nothing more . 
Condy was too clear headed to deceive himself upon this point . 
The time was come for her to go away , and she had given him no sign , no cue . 
The last days passed Blix's trunk was packed , her half section engaged , her ticket bought . 
They had left K. D. B. and Captain Jack until the last day . 
Blix was to go on the second of January . 
Then came the last day of the old year , the last day but one that they would be together . 
They spent it in a long ramble along the water front , following the line of the shipping even as far as Meiggs's Wharf . 
From where they sat they could look down , almost as from a tower , into the city's streets . 
Here a corner came into view further on a great puff of green foliage palms and pines side by side over looked a wall . 
As they looked and watched , the afterglow caught window after window , till all that quarter of the city seemed to stare up at them from a thousand ruddy eyes . 
The windows seemed infinite in number , the streets endless in their complications yet everything was deserted . 
At this hour the streets were empty , and would remain so until daylight . 
Not a soul was stirring no face looked from any of those myriads of glowing windows no footfall disturbed the silence of those asphalt streets . 
the stillness unbroken by a single echo . 
But the scene was not in reality silent . 
Sitting in the window , the two noticed it at once , and Condy stirred for the first time in fifteen minutes . 
That was a very long one , he said , in a low voice . 
Blix , you must write to me we must write each other often . 
Oh , yes , she answered . 
We must not forget each other we have had too good a time for that . 
Four years is a long time , he went on . 
Lots can happen in four years . 
Wonder what I'll be doing at the end of four years ? We've had a pleasant time while it lasted , Blix . 
Haven't we ? she said , her chin on her hand , the moonlight shining in her little , dark brown eyes . 
Well , he was going to lose her . 
He had found out that he loved her only in time to feel the wrench of parting from her all the more keenly . 
He and Blix had lived through two months of rarest , most untroubled happiness , with hardly more self consciousness than two young and healthy boys . 
To bring that troublous , disquieting element of love between them unrequited love , of all things would be a folly . 
She would tell him must in all honesty tell him that she did not love him , and all their delicious camaraderie would end in a scene . 
Condy , above everything , wished to look back on those two months , after she had gone , without being able to remember therein one single note that jarred . 
If the memory of her was all that he was to have , he resolved that at least that memory should be perfect . 
In those two months he had grown five years he was more masculine , more virile . 
The very set of his mouth was different between the eye brows the cleft had deepened his voice itself vibrated to a heavier note . 
But the little gun metal case he carried was empty . 
Then quietly she said Well , Condy ? Well , Blix ? Just 'well' ? she repeated . 
Is that all ? Is that all you have to say to me ? He gave a great start . 
That you have been pretending that you did not love me . 
It's the pretence that I won't have , she added . 
There in that room , high above the city , a little climax had come swiftly to a head , a crisis in two lives had suddenly developed . 
The moment that had been in preparation for the last few months , the last few years , the last few centuries , behold ! it had arrived . 
Blix , do you love me ? Suddenly it was the New Year . 
Somewhere close at hand a chorus of chiming church bells sang together . 
Far off in the direction of the wharves , where the great ocean steamships lay , came the glad , sonorous shouting of a whistle from a nearby street a bugle called aloud . 
It was the old year yet when Condy had asked that question . 
In that moment's pause , while Blix hesitated to answer him , the New Year had come . 
And while the huge , vast note of the city swelled and vibrated , she still kept silent . 
But only for a moment . 
Then she came closer to him , and put a hand on each of his shoulders . 
Happy New Year , dear , she said . 
Blix had been busy with the last details of her packing , and they did not get started until toward two in the afternoon . 
Strike me ! exclaimed Captain Jack , as Blix informed him that she had come to say good by . 
Why , ain't this very sudden like , Miss Bessemer ? Hey , Kitty , come in here . 
Here's Miss Bessemer come to say good by going to New York to morrow . 
We'll regularly be lonesome without you , miss , said K. D. B. , as she came into the front room , bringing with her a brisk , pungent odor of boiled vegetables . 
New York such a town as it must be ! It was called Manhattan at first , you know , and was settled by the Dutch . 
Evidently K. D. B. had reached the N's . 
Captain Jack was , in fact , anxious to change the subject . 
Well , he said in answer , they're not , as you might say , falling over themselves trying to see who'll be the first to print it . 
The devil you say ! responded the Captain . 
Well , that's kind of disappointin' to you , ain't it ? But , Blix hastened to add , we're not at all discouraged . 
We're going to send it off again right away . 
Then she said good by to them . 
I dunno as you'll see me here when you come back , miss , said the Captain , at the gate , his arm around K. D. B. I've got to schemin' again . 
All them bricks are in a box dumped in like so much coal and that box sets just under the wheel house , for'ard . 
How much money do you suppose them bricks represent ? Well , I'll tell you last week they represented seven hundred and eighty thousand dollars . 
Well , now , I got a chart of the bay near Vallejo the channel's all right , but there are mudflats that run out from shore three miles . 
Enough water for a whitehall , but not enough for well , for the patrol boat , for instance . 
I think your scheme of holding up a Cunard liner , said Condy , with great earnestness , is more feasible . 
You could lay across her course and fly a distress signal . 
She'd have to heave to . 
You'd leave her mails aboard for just that reason . 
You wouldn't rob her of her mails just so long as she was carrying government mails she couldn't stop . 
The Captain clapped his palm down upon the gate post . 
Strike me straight ! I never thought of that . 
The world seemed very far away from them here on the shores of the Pacific , on that first afternoon of the New Year . 
They were supremely happy , and they sufficed to themselves . 
Condy had forgotten all about the next day , when he must say good by to Blix . 
It did not seem possible , it was not within the bounds of possibility , that she was to go away that they two were to be separated . 
And for that matter , to morrow was to morrow . 
It was twenty four hours away . 
The present moment was sufficient . 
The persistence with which they clung to the immediate moment , their happiness in living only in the present , had brought about a rather curious condition of things between them . 
In their love for each other there was no thought of marriage they were too much occupied with the joy of being together at that particular instant to think of the future . 
They loved each other , and that was enough . 
They did not look ahead further than the following day , and then but furtively , and only in order that their morrow's parting might intensify their happiness of to day . 
That New Year's Day was to be the end of everything . 
Blix was going she and Condy would never see each other again . 
The thought of marriage with its certain responsibilities , its duties , its gravity , its vague , troublous seriousness , its inevitable disappointments was even a little distasteful to them . 
Their romance had been hitherto without a flaw they had been genuinely happy in little things . 
This was the end , they both understood . 
They were glad that it was to be so . 
They did not even speak again of writing to each other . 
There was no detail in the scene . 
It was no place for trival ideas and thoughts of little things . 
The mind harked back unconsciously to the broad , simpler , basic emotions , the fundamental instincts of the race . 
The huge spaces of earth and air and water carried with them a feeling of kindly but enormous force elemental force , fresh , untutored , new , and young . 
Condy and Blix sat still , listening , looking , and watching the intellect drowsy and numb the emotions , the senses , all alive and brimming to the surface . 
Vaguely they felt the influence of the moment . 
Something was preparing for them . 
From the lowest , untouched depths in the hearts of each of them something was rising steadily to consciousness and the light of day . 
The afternoon had waned and the sun had begun to set when Blix rose . 
We should be going , Condy , she told him . 
They started up the hill , and Condy said I feel as though I had been somehow asleep with my eyes wide open . 
Blix drew his arm about her waist , and laid her cheek upon his shoulder with a little caressing motion . 
And I do love you , dear , she said love you with all my heart . 
And it's for always , too I know that . 
Just a little while ago I was only nineteen , but I think , dear , that by loving you I have become all of a sudden and without knowing it a woman . 
A little trembling ran through her with the words . 
She stopped and put both arms around his neck , her head tipped back , her eyes half closed , her sweet yellow hair rolling from her forehead . 
You do love me , Condy , don't you , just as I love you ? Such words as he could think of seemed pitifully inadequate . 
For answer he could only hold her the closer . 
Her eyes closed slowly , and her face drew nearer to his . 
Just above a whisper , she said I love you , dear ! I love you , Blix ! And they kissed each other then upon the mouth . 
Meanwhile the sun had been setting . 
Such a sunset ! The whole world , the three great spaces of sea and land and sky , were incarnadined with the glory of it . 
It was New Year's Day the earth was new , the year was new , and their love was new and strong . 
There was no longer any past , no longer any present . 
Regrets and memories had no place in their new world . 
It was Hope , Hope , Hope , that sang to them and called to them and smote into life the new keen blood of them . 
Instead of being the end , that New Year's Day was but the beginning the beginning of their real romance . 
All the fine , virile , masculine energy of him was aroused and rampant . 
All her sweet , strong womanliness had been suddenly deepened and broadened . 
In fine , he had become a man , and she woman . 
It's good by , dear , isn't it ? said Blix . 
But Condy would not have it so . 
Oh , you're right , you're right ! she answered , the tears beginning to shine in her little dark brown eyes . 
No so long as we love each other , nothing matters . 
And we'll be together again , Blix , he said and it won't be very long now . 
Just give me time a few years now . 
But so long as we love each other , TIME won't matter either . 
What are the tears for , Blixy ? he asked , pressing his handkerchief to her cheek . 
Because this is the saddest and happiest day of my life , she answered . 
Then she pulled from him with a little laugh , adding Look , Condy , you've dropped your letter . 
You pulled it out just now with your handkerchief . 
As Condy picked it up , she noted the name of the Centennial Company upon the corner . 
It's the letter I got with the manuscript of the novel when they sent it back , he explained . 
What did they say ? Oh , the usual thing . 
I haven't read it yet . 
He opened it and read We return to you herewith the MS . 
of your novel , 'In Defiance of Authority , and regret that our reader does not recommend it as available for publication at present . 
In case you should decide to come on , we inclose R. R. passes via the A. T. S. F. , C. A. , and New York Central . 
Very truly , THE CENTENNIAL PUBLISHING COMPANY , NEW YORK . 
But Blix was too excited to speak , and could only give vent to a little , quivering , choking sigh . 
The letter was a veritable god from the machine , the one thing lacking to complete their happiness . 
Perhaps as gay as they ever were to be again . 
They began to know the difference between gayety and happiness . 
That New Year's Day , that sunset , marked for them an end and a beginning . 
Their new found happiness was not without its sadness already . 
Forever and forever they had said good by to that life . 
Already the sunset was losing its glory . 
Then , with one last look , they turned about and set their faces from it to the new life , to the East , where lay the Nation . 
Their little gayeties were done the life of little things was all behind . 
The sterner note had struck work was to be done that , too , the New Year had brought to them work for each of them , work and the world of men . 
But his arm was around her , and the strong young force that looked into her eyes from his gave her courage . 
A happy New Year , dear , she said . 
A very , very happy New Year , Blix , he answered . 
