The Master of Ballantrae by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Master of Ballantrae A Winter's Tale To Sir Percy Florence and Lady Shelley Here is a tale which extends over many years and travels into many countries . 
By a peculiar fitness of circumstance the writer began , continued it , and concluded it among distant and diverse scenes . 
Above all , he was much upon the sea . 
on the approach of squalls . 
It is my hope that these surroundings of its manufacture may to some degree find favour for my story with seafarers and sea lovers like yourselves . 
Well , I am for the sea once more no doubt Sir Percy also . 
Elsewhere he is delighted with the presence of what is new , there tormented by the absence of what is old . 
Elsewhere he is content to be his present self there he is smitten with an equal regret for what he once was and for what he once hoped to be . 
I have something quite in your way , said Mr. Thomson . 
A great deal better than nothing , said the editor . 
A mystery ? I repeated . 
Yes , said his friend , a mystery . 
It may prove to be nothing , and it may prove to be a great deal . 
it is concerned with death . 
I think I rarely heard a more obscure or a more promising annunciation , the other remarked . 
He was to me a man of a great historical interest , but the interest was not returned . 
Ah well , we go beyond him , said Mr. Thomson . 
I daresay old Peter knew as little about this as I do . 
Among other collections , were all the papers of the Durrisdeers . 
The Durrisdeers ! cried I. My dear fellow , these may be of the greatest interest . 
How do you know that ? I mean some death . 
, said Mr. Thomson with something the tone of a man quoting . 
Is that it ? To say truth , said I , I have only seen some dim reference to the things in memoirs and heard some traditions dimmer still , through my uncle . 
My uncle lived when he was a boy in the neighbourhood of St . 
Yes , said Mr. Thomson . 
To say truth , it was a letter of my lord's that put me on the search for the packet we are going to open this evening . 
Some papers could not be found and he wrote to Jack M'Brair suggesting they might be among those sealed up by a Mr. Mackellar . 
of a purely narrative character and besides , said he , 'I am bound not to open them before the year . 
I propose to show you at once . 
Here , said Mr. Thomson , is a novel ready to your hand all you have to do is to work up the scenery , develop the characters , and improve the style . 
My dear fellow , said I , they are just the three things that I would rather die than set my hand to . 
It shall be published as it stands . 
But it's so bald , objected Mr. Thomson . 
I believe there is nothing so noble as baldness , replied I , and I am sure there in nothing so interesting . 
I would have all literature bald , and all authors but one . 
Well , well , add Mr. Thomson , we shall see . 
CHAPTER I. SUMMARY OF EVENTS DURING THIS MASTER'S WANDERINGS . 
The full truth of this odd matter is what the world has long been looking for , and public curiosity is sure to welcome . 
As for my late Lord Durrisdeer , I served him and loved him near twenty years and thought more of him the more I knew of him . 
The Duries of Durrisdeer and Ballantrae were a strong family in the south west from the days of David First . 
seem not very commendable and the family suffered its full share of those ups and downs to which the great houses of Scotland have been ever liable . 
But all these I pass over , to come to that memorable year , when the foundations of this tragedy were laid . 
At that time there dwelt a family of four persons in the house of Durrisdeer , near St . 
Bride's , on the Solway shore a chief hold of their race since the Reformation . 
If it was true , it was a horrid fact in one so young and if false , it was a horrid calumny . 
who had made a figure in the country beyond his time of life . 
, who was neither very bad nor yet very able , but an honest , solid sort of lad like many of his neighbours . 
Little heard , I say but indeed it was a case of little spoken . 
The fourth person in the house was Miss Alison Graeme , a near kinswoman , an orphan , and the heir to a considerable fortune which her father had acquired in trade . 
To these four came the news of Prince Charlie's landing , and set them presently by the ears . 
My lord , like the chimney keeper that he was , was all for temporising . 
was for this once of her opinion . 
As for Mr. Henry , it appears he said little enough at first his part came later on . 
Doubtless this was my lord's decision and , as is well known , it was the part played by many considerable families . 
But the one dispute settled , another opened . 
My lord pleaded , Miss Alison wept , Mr. Henry was very plain spoken all was of no avail . 
It is the direct heir of Durrisdeer that should ride by his King's bridle , says the Master . 
If we were playing a manly part , says Mr. Henry , there might be sense in such talk . 
But what are we doing ? Cheating at cards ! We are saving the house of Durrisdeer , Henry , his father said . 
And see , James , said Mr. Henry , if I go , and the Prince has the upper hand , it will be easy to make your peace with King James . 
But if you go , and the expedition fails , we divide the right and the title . 
And what shall I be then ? You will be Lord Durrisdeer , said the Master . 
I put all I have upon the table . 
I play at no such game , cries Mr. Henry . 
I shall be left in such a situation as no man of sense and honour could endure . 
I shall be neither fish nor flesh ! he cried . 
And a little after he had another expression , plainer perhaps than he intended . 
It is your duty to be here with my father , said he . 
You know well enough you are the favourite . 
Ay ? said the Master . 
And there spoke Envy ! Would you trip up my heels Jacob ? said he , and dwelled upon the name maliciously . 
Mr. Henry went and walked at the low end of the hall without reply for he had an excellent gift of silence . 
I am the cadet and I SHOULD go , said he . 
And my lord here in the master , and he says I SHALL go . 
Will you stand by the toss of the coin ? I will stand and fall by it , said Mr. Henry . 
Heads , I go shield , I stay . 
The coin was spun , and it fell shield . 
So there is a lesson for Jacob , says the Master . 
We shall live to repent of this , says Mr. Henry , and flung out of the hall . 
If you loved me as well as I love you , you would have stayed , cried she . 
'I could not love you , dear , so well , loved I not honour more , sang the Master . 
Oh ! she cried , you have no heart I hope you may be killed ! and she ran from the room , and in tears , to her own chamber . 
It seems the Master turned to my lord with his most comical manner , and says he , This looks like a devil of a wife . 
I think you are a devil of a son to me , cried his father , you that have always been the favourite , to my shame be it spoken . 
Never a good hour have I gotten of you , since you were born no , never one good hour , and repeated it again the third time . 
Altogether it was in pretty ill blood with his family that the Master rode to the North which was the more sorrowful for others to remember when it seemed too late . 
it was wetted with tears when he carried it down to him . 
In all that followed , Mr. Henry and my old lord were true to their bargain . 
That ever they accomplished anything is more than I could learn and that they were anyway strong on the king's side , more than believe . 
But they kept the letter of loyalty , corresponded with my Lord President , sat still at home , and had little or no commerce with the Master while that business lasted . 
Nor was he , on his side , more communicative . 
Miss Alison , indeed , was always sending him expresses , but I do not know if she had many answers . 
It was Macconochie who picked it up and he still kept it , and indeed I have seen it in his hands . 
News came to Durrisdeer of course , by the common report , as it goes travelling through a country , a thing always wonderful to me . 
Sir Thomas Sullivan , Colonel Burke and the rest , were his daily comrades , by which course he withdrew himself from his own country folk . 
to have had less regard to the chances of the campaign than to the greatness of favour he might aspire to , if , by any luck , it should succeed . 
For the rest , he did very well in the field no one questioned that for he was no coward . 
As for my lord , he was like ashes . 
I have still one son , says he . 
And , Henry , I will do you this justice it is the kinder that is left . 
It was a strange thing to say in such a moment but my lord had never forgotten Mr. Henry's speech , and he had years of injustice on his conscience . 
Still it was a strange thing , and more than Miss Alison could let pass . 
Mr. Henry got to his feet , and stood holding his chair . 
It was he that was like ashes now . 
Oh ! he burst out suddenly , I know you loved him . 
God knows , groans he , it was lost love on both sides . 
Time went by in the house after that without much change only they were now three instead of four , which was a perpetual reminder of their loss . 
This was the work of Tam Macmorland . 
Those that have the underhand in any fighting , I have observed , are ever anxious to persuade themselves they were betrayed . 
This habit of imputing treason grew upon the fool , till at last he must have in Mr. Henry also . 
had betrayed the lads of Durrisdeer he had promised to follow with more men , and instead of that he had ridden to King George . 
Ay , and the next day ! Tam would cry . 
Let anyone speak long enough , he will get believers . 
to cry out their reproaches to his face . 
The Master was cried up for a saint . 
It was remembered how he had never any hand in pressing the tenants as , indeed , no more he had , except to spend the money . 
She flung a stone one day at Mr. Henry . 
Whaur's the bonnie lad that trustit ye ? she cried . 
Mr. Henry reined in his horse and looked upon her , the blood flowing from his lip . 
Ay , Jess ? says he . 
You too ? And yet ye should ken me better . 
For it was he who had helped her with money . 
The woman had another stone ready , which she made as if she would cast and he , to ward himself , threw up the hand that held his riding rod . 
What , would ye beat a lassie , ye ugly ? cries she , and ran away screaming as though he had struck her . 
Next day word went about the country like wildfire that Mr. Henry had beaten Jessie Broun within an inch of her life . 
My old lord must have heard of it , by John Paul , if by no one else and he must at least have remarked the altered habits of his son . 
there was an election forward in the town of St . 
My lord moved that Mr. Henry should be present , assuring him it was necessary to appear , for the credit of the house . 
It will soon be reported , said he , that we do not take the lead in our own country . 
You are the first of the house that ever said so , cries Miss Alison . 
, and Miss Alison into her riding coat , and all three rode together to St . 
It took not ten minutes to persuade my lord that Mr. Henry had been right . 
He said never a word , but turned his horse about , and home again , with his chin upon his bosom . 
If Henry still wants me , said she , he can have me now . 
To himself she had a different speech I bring you no love , Henry but God knows , all the pity in the world . 
June the st , , was the day of their marriage . 
I had tales of Claverhouse as we came through the bogs , and tales of the devil , as we came over the top of the scaur . 
The money sunk here unproductively would have quite restored the family but as it was , it cost a revenue to keep it up . 
He led me into the hall , booted as I was , to present me to my lord . 
He was like Mr. Henry , with much the same plain countenance , only more subtle and pleasant , and his talk a thousand times more entertaining . 
Mr. Henry had the chief part of my affection . 
Even while he was driving me , I had begun to find my heart go out to Mr. Henry no doubt , partly in pity , he was a man so palpably unhappy . 
One day , I remember , we were late upon some business in the steward's room . 
You would not guess what I was thinking , says he . 
I was thinking I would be a happier man if I could ride and run the danger of my life , with these lawless companions . 
Why , just so , said he . 
And with that we may get back to our accounts . 
It was not long before I began to get wind of the causes that so much depressed him . 
Indeed a blind man must have soon discovered there was a shadow on that house , the shadow of the Master of Ballantrae . 
They were two old serving men that were the leaders . 
a pretty faithful servant , was the chief of the Master's faction . 
None durst go so far as John . 
He took a pleasure in disregarding Mr. Henry publicly , often with a slighting comparison . 
As for Henry , he let these things pass in silence , sometimes with a sad and sometimes with a black look . 
There was no rivalling the dead , he knew that and how to censure an old serving man for a fault of loyalty , was more than he could see . 
His was not the tongue to do it . 
Macconochie had soon smelled out my secret inclination , took me much into his confidence , and would rant against the Master by the hour , so that even my work suffered . 
in his window till the man thocht it was auld Hornie was come seekin' him . 
Weel , to mak a lang story short , Wully gaed gyte . 
At the hinder end , they couldnae get him frae his knees , but he just roared and prayed and grat straucht on , till he got his release . 
It was fair murder , a'body said that . 
How would I ken ? says he . 
And on again in his usual manner of banning and swearing , with every now and again a Master of Ballantrae sneered through his nose . 
It was in one of these confidences that he showed me the Carlisle letter , the print of the horse shoe still stamped in the paper . 
And grateful he was , no doubt , being a man of sense and justice . 
But I think that was all , and I am sure Mr. Henry thought so . 
The love was all for the dead son . 
Not that this was often given breath to indeed , with me but once . 
My lord had asked me one day how I got on with Mr. Henry , and I had told him the truth . 
Ay , said he , looking sideways on the burning fire , Henry is a good lad , a very good lad , said he . 
You will find him a good master . 
And with that he opened his book , which was the customary signal of dismission . 
I am keeping Mrs. Henry for the last , so that this expression of my sentiment may seem unwarrantably strong the reader shall judge for himself when I have done . 
But I must first tell of another matter , which was the means of bringing me more intimate . 
The third morning of his sickness , Mr. Henry comes to me with something of a hang dog look . 
Mackellar , says he , I wish I could trouble you upon a little service . 
There is a pension we pay it is John's part to carry it , and now that he is sick I know not to whom I should look unless it was yourself . 
I was the more impressed when the truth came out . 
It was up a wynd off a side street in St . 
Bride's that Jessie had her lodging . 
The place was very ill inhabited , mostly by the freetrading sort . 
Altogether , I had never seen a worse neighbourhood , even in the great city of Edinburgh , and I was in two minds to go back . 
Jessie's room was of a piece with her surroundings , and herself no better . 
Of the money she spoke more tragically . 
I will not say I did not pity her , but it was a loathing pity at the best and her last change of manner wiped it out . 
This was when she had had enough of me for an audience , and had set her name at last to the receipt . 
There ! says she , and taking the most unwomanly oaths upon her tongue , bade me begone and carry it to the Judas who had sent me . 
This was a strong lesson , had I required one , to avoid ill company and I rode home in much pain from the bite and considerable indignation of mind . 
Mr. Henry was in the steward's room , affecting employment , but I could see he was only impatient to hear of my errand . 
I need not dissemble what all the country knows she was not very well used by one of our family . 
It would give pain to Mrs. Henry . 
and to my father , he added , with another flush . 
Mr. Henry , said I , if you will take a freedom at my hands , I would tell you to let that woman be . 
But I am grieved about your ankle , said he , the next moment , with a proper gravity . 
And observe , I continued , I give you this advice upon consideration and yet my heart was touched for the woman in the beginning . 
Why , there it is , you see ! said Mr. Henry . 
And you are to remember that I knew her once a very decent lass . 
Besides which , although I speak little of my family , I think much of its repute . 
And with that he broke up the talk , which was the first we had together in such confidence . 
But the same afternoon I had the proof that his father was perfectly acquainted with the business , and that it was only from his wife that Mr. Henry kept it secret . 
how very desirable it is that no word of it should reach my daughter . 
Reflections on the dead , Mr. Mackellar , are doubly painful . 
The fault , to be very blunt , lay all in Mrs. Henry . 
I suppose he was glad to talk of his loss , and ashamed to dwell on it with Mr. Henry . 
Certainly , at least , he made a little coterie apart in that family of three , and it was the husband who was shut out . 
we could but hear the murmur of voices at the chimney . 
I have hours when I blame Mr. Henry for taking all too patiently yet we are to remember he was married in pity , and accepted his wife upon that term . 
And , indeed , he had small encouragement to make a stand . 
But to the Master's fancies , that pane was like a relic and on the first word of any change , the blood flew to Mrs. Henry's face . 
I wonder at you ! she cried . 
I wonder at myself , says Mr. Henry , with more of bitterness than I had ever heard him to express . 
The pane , however , was not replaced and I believe he counted it a great defeat . 
Whether he was stout enough or no , God knows he was kind enough . 
would have pricked my vanity into an ulcer he took it like a favour . 
When Miss Katharine was to be born , nothing would serve but he must stay in the room behind the head of the bed . 
as a sheet , and the sweat dropping from his brow and the handkerchief he had in his hand was crushed into a little ball no bigger than a musket bullet . 
Well , said I , smiling a little , I will see what he wants . 
I found in the entrance hall a big man , very plainly habited , and wrapped in a sea cloak , like one new landed , as indeed he was . 
He had no sooner seen me coming than he went to meet me with an effusive manner . 
My dear man , said he , a thousand apologies for disturbing you , but I'm in the most awkward position . 
And there's a son of a ramrod there that I should know the looks of , and more betoken I believe that he knows mine . 
, you are doubtless of the honest party ? You may be sure at least , says I , that all of that party are quite safe in Durrisdeer . 
My dear man , it is my very thought , says he . 
And the son of a ramrod , whom I believe I saw before Carlisle . 
Oh , sir , said I , you can trust Macconochie until to morrow . 
Well , and it's a delight to hear you say so , says the stranger . 
The truth is that my name is not a very suitable one in this country of Scotland . 
With a gentleman like you , my dear man , I would have no concealments of course and by your leave I'll just breathe it in your ear . 
In the same moment a strong foreboding of the truth possessed my soul . 
If you will step in here , said I , opening a chamber door , I will let my lord know . 
And I am sure it's very good of you , Mr. What is your name , says the Colonel . 
Up to the hall I went , slow footed . 
There they were , all three my old lord in his place , Mrs. Henry at work by the window , Mr. Henry pacing the low end . 
In the midst was the table laid for supper . 
I told them briefly what I had to say . 
My old lord lay back in his seat . 
Then Mr. Henry turned to me not to speak , only to sign with his finger but that was enough , and I went down again for the Colonel . 
When we returned , these three were in much the same position I same left them in I believe no word had passed . 
My Lord Durrisdeer , no doubt ? says the Colonel , bowing , and my lord bowed in answer . 
And this , continues the Colonel , should be the Master of Ballantrae ? I have never taken that name , said Mr. Henry but I am Henry Durie , at your service . 
Then the Colonel turns to Mrs. Henry , bowing with his hat upon his heart and the most killing airs of gallantry . 
There can be no mistake about so fine a figure of a lady , says he . 
I address the seductive Miss Alison , of whom I have so often heard ? Once more husband and wife exchanged a look . 
I am Mrs. Henry Durie , said she but before my marriage my name was Alison Graeme . 
Then my lord spoke up . 
I am an old man , Colonel Burke , said he , and a frail one . 
It will be mercy on your part to be expeditious . 
My lord held out a wavering hand he seemed to wave a signal , but whether it was to give him time or to speak on , was more than we could guess . 
At length he got out the one word , Good ? Why , the very best in the creation ! cries the Colonel . 
Bedad , I believe the lady's fainting . 
Mrs. Henry was indeed the colour of death , and drooped against the window frame . 
But when Mr. Henry made a movement as if to run to her , she straightened with a sort of shiver . 
I am well , she said , with her white lips . 
Mr. Henry stopped , and his face had a strong twitch of anger . 
The next moment he had turned to the Colonel . 
You must not blame yourself , says he , for this effect on Mrs. Durie . 
It is only natural we were all brought up like brother and sister . 
Mrs. Henry looked at her husband with something like relief or even gratitude . 
In my way of thinking , that speech was the first step he made in her good graces . 
he will tell his own story with a better grace . 
But the lady waved it back . 
To my husband , says she , with a choked voice . 
The Colonel was a quick man , but at this he was somewhat nonplussed . 
To be sure ! says he how very dull of me ! To be sure ! But he still held the letter . 
At last Mr. Henry reached forth his hand , and there was nothing to be done but give it up . 
, and looked upon their outside , with his brows knit hard , as if he were thinking . 
He had surprised me all through by his excellent behaviour but he was to excel himself now . 
Let me give you a hand to your room , said he to his wife . 
This has come something of the suddenest and , at any rate , you will wish to read your letter by yourself . 
Again she looked upon him with the same thought of wonder but he gave her no time , coming straight to where she stood . 
It will be better so , believe me , said he and Colonel Burke is too considerate not to excuse you . 
And with that he took her hand by the fingers , and led her from the hall . 
Mrs. Henry returned no more that night and when Mr. Henry went to visit her next morning , as I heard long afterwards , she gave him the letter again , still unopened . 
Oh , read it and be done ! he had cried . 
Spare me that , said she . 
And by these two speeches , to my way of thinking , each undid a great part of what they had previously done well . 
But the letter , sure enough , came into my hands , and by me was burned , unopened . 
To be very exact as to the adventures of the Master after Culloden , I wrote not long ago to Colonel Burke , now a Chevalier of the Order of St . 
Louis , begging him for some notes in writing , since I could scarce depend upon my memory at so great an interval . 
FROM THE MEMOIRS OF THE CHEVALIER DE BURKE . 
with much greater satisfaction than I had come to it but whether I missed my way in the deserts , or whether my companions failed me , I soon found myself alone . 
Yet what founded our particular friendship was a circumstance , by itself as romantic as any fable of King Arthur . 
This was on the second day of our flight , after we had slept one night in the rain upon the inclination of a mountain . 
but I have seen him since in France ) who chanced to be passing the same way , and had a jealousy of my companion . 
Very uncivil expressions were exchanged and Stewart calls upon the Master to alight and have it out . 
Why , Mr. Stewart , says the Master , I think at the present time I would prefer to run a race with you . 
And with the word claps spurs to his horse . 
It was a good jest , but it smells a trifle cowardly . 
He bent his brows at me . 
I do pretty well , says he , when I saddle myself with the most unpopular man in Scotland , and let that suffice for courage . 
O , bedad , says I , I could show you a more unpopular with the naked eye . 
And if you like not my company , you can 'saddle' yourself on some one else . 
Colonel Burke , says he , do not let us quarrel and , to that effect , let me assure you I am the least patient man in the world . 
I am as little patient as yourself , said I. I care not who knows that . 
At this rate , says he , reining in , we shall not go very far . 
And I propose we do one of two things upon the instant either quarrel and be done or make a sure bargain to bear everything at each other's hands . 
Like a pair of brothers ? said I. I said no such foolishness , he replied . 
I have a brother of my own , and I think no more of him than of a colewort . 
I am a pretty bad fellow at bottom , and I find the pretence of virtues very irksome . 
O , I am as bad as yourself , said I. There is no skim milk in Francis Burke . 
But which is it to be ? Fight or make friends ? Why , says be , I think it will be the best manner to spin a coin for it . 
whether we were to cut each other's throats or be sworn friends . 
The coin fell for peace , and we shook hands upon our bargain . 
And then it was that my companion explained to me his thought in running away from Mr. Stewart , which was certainly worthy of his political intellect . 
For , says he , Alan Black is too vain a man to narrate any such story of himself . 
Towards afternoon we came down to the shores of that loch for which we were heading and there was the ship , but newly come to anchor . 
She was the SAINTE MARIE DES ANGES , out of the port of Havre de Grace . 
The Master , after we had signalled for a boat , asked me if I knew the captain . 
I told him he was a countryman of mine , of the most unblemished integrity , but , I was afraid , a rather timorous man . 
No matter , says he . 
For all that , he should certainly hear the truth . 
I asked him if he meant about the battle ? for if the captain once knew the standard was down , he would certainly put to sea again at once . 
And even then ! said he the arms are now of no sort of utility . 
My dear man , said I , who thinks of the arms ? But , to be sure , we must remember our friends . 
They will be close upon our heels , perhaps the Prince himself , and if the ship be gone , a great number of valuable lives may be imperilled . 
The captain and the crew have lives also , if you come to that , says Ballantrae . 
I have related the whole conversation as it passed . 
Frank , says he , remember our bargain . 
I must not object to your holding your tongue , which I hereby even encourage you to do but , by the same terms , you are not to resent my telling . 
I could not help laughing at this though I still forewarned him what would come of it . 
The devil may come of it for what I care , says the reckless fellow . 
I have always done exactly as I felt inclined . 
As is well known , my prediction came true . 
The captain had no sooner heard the news than he cut his cable and to sea again and before morning broke , we were in the Great Minch . 
The ship was very old and the skipper , although the most honest of men , was one of the least capable . 
The wind blew very boisterous , and the sea raged extremely . 
in the night the wind chopped suddenly into the north east , and blew a hurricane . 
the small trust that can be set in worldly friends . 
I would be unworthy of my religion if I let this pass without particular remark . 
For three days we lay in the dark in the cabin , and had but a biscuit to nibble . 
On the fourth the wind fell , leaving the ship dismasted and heaving on vast billows . 
The fifth and sixth days we tossed there helpless . 
The seventh some sail was got on her , but she was an unwieldy vessel at the best , and we made little but leeway . 
All the time , indeed , we had been drifting to the south and west , and during the tempest must have driven in that direction with unheard of violence . 
The ninth dawn was cold and black , with a great sea running , and every mark of foul weather . 
In this situation we were overjoyed to sight a small ship on the horizon , and to perceive her go about and head for the SAINTE MARIE . 
Their leader was a horrible villain , with his face blacked and his whiskers curled in ringlets Teach , his name a most notorious pirate . 
He stamped about the deck , raving and crying out that his name was Satan , and his ship was called Hell . 
There was something about him like a wicked child or a half witted person , that daunted me beyond expression . 
Bedad , said I to Master Teach , if you are Satan , here is a devil for ye . 
Ballantrae and I and two others were taken for recruits , while the skipper and all the rest were cast into the sea by the method of walking the plank . 
remarked upon my pale face in a very alarming manner . 
CROWDING PAT was the name they dubbed me with and it was little I cared for a name so long as my skin was whole . 
What kind of a pandemonium that vessel was , I cannot describe , but she was commanded by a lunatic , and might be called a floating Bedlam . 
Teach ruled , if you can call that rule which brought no order , by the terror he created and I observed the man was very vain of his position . 
I have known marshals of France ay , and even Highland chieftains that were less openly puffed up which throws a singular light on the pursuit of honour and glory . 
It was long before I got private speech of Ballantrae but at length one night we crept out upon the boltsprit , when the rest were better employed , and commiserated our position . 
None can deliver us but the saints , said I. My mind is very different , said Ballantrae for I am going to deliver myself . 
I confessed to him ingenuously that my nerve was quite shook amid these horrible surroundings , and I durst scarce tell him to count upon me . 
I am not very easy frightened , said he , nor very easy beat . 
A few days after , there befell an accident which had nearly hanged us all and offers the most extraordinary picture of the folly that ruled in our concerns . 
Run up the colours , cries Teach . 
Ballantrae steps presently aft with a smile upon his face . 
You may perhaps like to know , you drunken dog , says he , that you are chasing a king's ship . 
Teach roared him the lie but he ran at the same time to the bulwarks , and so did they all . 
I have never seen so many drunken men struck suddenly sober . 
Some ran to the ropes , and got the SARAH round with an incredible swiftness . 
One fellow fell on the rum barrel , which stood broached upon the deck , and rolled it promptly overboard . 
On my part , I made for the Jolly Roger , struck it , tossed it in the sea and could have flung myself after , so vexed was I with our mismanagement . 
As for Teach , he grew as pale as death , and incontinently went down to his cabin . 
Early next day we smelled him burning sulphur in his cabin and crying out of Hell , hell ! which was well understood among the crew , and filled their minds with apprehension . 
It was the silliest exhibition and yet dangerous too , for the cowardly fellow was plainly working himself up to another murder . 
All of a sudden Ballantrae stepped forth . 
Have done with this play acting , says he . 
Do you think to frighten us with making faces ? We saw nothing of you yesterday , when you were wanted and we did well without you , let me tell you that . 
There was a murmur and a movement in the crew , of pleasure and alarm , I thought , in nearly equal parts . 
As for Teach , he gave a barbarous howl , and swung his dirk to fling it , an art in which he was very expert . 
Knock that out of his hand ! says Ballantrae , so sudden and sharp that my arm obeyed him before my mind had understood . 
Teach stood like one stupid , never thinking on his pistols . 
Go down to your cabin , cries Ballantrae , and come on deck again when you are sober . 
And now , mates , says Ballantrae , a word with you . 
I don't know if you are gentlemen of fortune for the fun of the thing , but I am not . 
I want to make money , and get ashore again , and spend it like a man . 
And on one thing my mind is made up I will not hang if I can help it . 
But Ballantrae was afraid of a more efficient captain , who might be a counterweight to himself , and he opposed this stoutly . 
Do not let that stick you , says Ballantrae , I will do that . 
And he stepped to the companion and down alone into the cabin to face that drunken savage . 
This is the man for us , cries one of the hands . 
Indeed , it was no scene to bring out my merits . 
so often looked darkly down upon our exploits , and the mere crying of the wind in my ears , were all considerations most unpalatable to my valour . 
Besides which , as I was always a creature of the nicest sensibility , the scenes that must follow on our success tempted me as little as the chances of defeat . 
Even this he did to admiration being upon the whole the most capable man I ever met with , and the one of the most natural genius . 
But the rest , having no such grounds of hope , fell to another pastime , that of computation . 
All day long they would he telling up their shares or grooming over the result . 
I have said we were pretty fortunate . 
But an observation fails to be made that in this world , in no business that I have tried , do the profits rise to a man's expectations . 
What finally decided matters , was a trifling accident , such as an ignorant person might suppose incidental to our way of life . 
But here I must explain on only one of all the ships we boarded , the first on which we found women , did we meet with any genuine resistance . 
On that occasion we had two men killed and several injured , and if it had not been for the gallantry of Ballantrae we had surely been beat back at last . 
The swell was exceeding great the motion of the ship beyond description it was little wonder if our gunners should fire thrice and be still quite broad of what they aimed at . 
A little after , the haze lifted , and fell again , showing us a cruiser very close . 
This was a sore blow , happening so near our refuge . 
There was a great debate of whether she had seen us , and if so whether it was likely they had recognised the SARAH . 
I supposed this alert would have made us separate upon the instant . 
But here again that original genius of Ballantrae's had a surprise in store for me . 
had gone hand in hand since the first day of his appointment . 
I did as I was told , and coming into the cabin , where it was quite dark , let myself fall on the first locker . 
My heart now beat very hard , for I saw some desperate matter was in act . 
Presently down came Ballantrae , lit the lamp , looked about the cabin , nodded as if pleased , and on deck again without a word . 
On deck the rest were got to a pitch of revelry quite beyond the bounds of what is human so that no reasonable name can describe the sounds they were now making . 
The latter cursed at the sight of us three upon the lockers . 
Tut , says Ballantrae , you might fire a pistol at their ears . 
You know what stuff they have been swallowing . 
There was a hatch in the cabin floor , and under that the richest part of the booty was stored against the day of division . 
being divided one to Teach , one to Ballantrae , and one to the mate , a man called Hammond . 
to observe Ballantrae and Teach bring up several packets , four of them in all , very carefully made up and with a loop for carriage . 
And now , says Teach , let us be going . 
One word , says Ballantrae . 
I have discovered there is another man besides yourself who knows a private path across the swamp and it seems it is shorter than yours . 
Teach cried out , in that case , they were undone . 
I do not know for that , says Ballantrae . 
For there are several other circumstances with which I must acquaint you . 
I was kind enough to load for both of us this morning . 
Secondly , as there is someone else who knows a passage , you must think it highly improbable I should saddle myself with a lunatic like you . 
, I am sure they will be so obliging as to deliver you , and you will have no difficulty , I daresay , to explain the business of the keys . 
Not a word said Teach , but looked at us like a frightened baby as we gagged and bound him . 
Now you see , you moon calf , says Ballantrae , why we made four packets . 
Heretofore you have been called Captain Teach , but I think you are now rather Captain Learn . 
That was our last word on board the SARAH . 
We were yet but a little way from the ship , when it began to come grey , and the birds to fly abroad upon the water . 
All of a sudden Dutton clapped down upon his hams , and whispered us to be silent for our lives , and hearken . 
Sure enough , we heard a little faint creak of oars upon one hand , and then again , and further off , a creak of oars upon the other . 
It was clear we had been sighted yesterday in the morning here were the cruiser's boats to cut us out here were we defenceless in their very midst . 
Sure , never were poor souls more perilously placed and as we lay there on our oars , praying God the mist might hold , the sweat poured from my brow . 
Presently we heard one of the boats where we might have thrown a biscuit in her . 
Softly , men , we heard an officer whisper and I marvelled they could not hear the drumming of my heart . 
Never mind the path , says Ballantrae we must get shelter anyhow let us pull straight ahead for the sides of the basin . 
I heard afterwards the officer that took her got great honour and it's true the approach was creditably managed , but I think he had an easy capture when he came to board . 
I was still blessing the saints for my escape , when I became aware we were in trouble of another kind . 
We were here landed at random in a vast and dangerous swamp and how to come at the path was a concern of doubt , fatigue , and peril . 
saw the fog already quite drunk up , and English colours flying on the SARAH , but no movement made to get her under way . 
Our situation was now very doubtful . 
I think it not wonderful we decided on the active part . 
It was already blistering hot when we set forth to pass the marsh , or rather to strike the path , by compass . 
Dutton took the compass , and one or other of us three carried his proportion of the treasure . 
I promise you he kept a sharp eye to his rear , for it was like the man's soul that he must trust us with . 
The case of Dutton is not in point , for I confess he did as well as any of us . 
, and at last even threatened us from behind with a cooked pistol , unless we should allow him rest . 
Ballantrae would have fought it out , I believe but I prevailed with him the other way and we made a stop and ate a meal . 
He went forward the more carelessly , I must suppose for presently we saw him sink a little down , draw up his feet and sink again , and so twice . 
Then he turned his face to us , pretty white . 
Lend a hand , said he , I am in a bad place . 
I don't know about that , says Ballantrae , standing still . 
And he set down his own packet and Dutton's , which he was then carrying . 
Do not venture near till we see if you are needed , said he to me , and went forward alone to where the man was bogged . 
He was quiet now , though he still held the pistol and the marks of terror in his countenance were very moving to behold . 
For the Lord's sake , says he , look sharp . 
Ballantrae was now got close up . 
Up went his hands over his head I know not whether with the pain or to ward himself and the next moment he doubled forward in the mud . 
Ballantrae was already over the ankles but he plucked himself out , and came back to me , where I stood with my knees smiting one another . 
The devil take you , Francis ! says he . 
I believe you are a half hearted fellow , after all . 
I have only done justice on a pirate . 
Come , said he , you must be more resolved . 
The need for this fellow ceased when he had shown you where the path ran and you cannot deny I would have been daft to let slip so fair an opportunity . 
We awaked the next morning very early , and began with a sullen spirit a conversation that came near to end in blows . 
I told him in what light I saw his conduct he walked a little off , I following to upbraid him and at last he stopped me with his hand . 
It is impossible you should doubt me there I have given proofs . 
By rights you should now be in irons in the cruiser . 
We had got some way off upon the sand . 
We had no sooner observed him than he found his legs and made off again among the pines . 
But the trouble was , we did not know in what direction , and must continually return upon our steps . 
Here they had lighted a fire , and were sitting at their meal . 
As for the vessel herself , she was one of those they build in the Bermudas . 
The love of gold and the great hatred that everybody has to pirates were motives of the most influential , and would certainly raise the country in our pursuit . 
These considerations put us on a bolder counsel . 
We were amazed to learn he had put in here from terror of the SARAH for we had no thought our exploits had been so notorious . 
On our side , we profited by the dram to become more confidential , and at last offered ourselves as passengers . 
I see , you think ill of us , says Ballantrae , but I will show you how well we think of you by telling you the truth . 
We are Jacobite fugitives , and there is a price upon our heads . 
At this , the Albanian was plainly moved a little . 
He asked us many questions as to the Scotch war , which Ballantrae very patiently answered . 
And then , with a wink , in a vulgar manner , I guess you and your Prince Charlie got more than you cared about , said he . 
Bedad , and that we did , said I. And , my dear man , I wish you would set a new example and give us just that much . 
This I said in the Irish way , about which there is allowed to be something very engaging . 
It's a remarkable thing , and a testimony to the love with which our nation is regarded , that this address scarce ever fails in a handsome fellow . 
I cannot tell how often I have seen a private soldier escape the horse , or a beggar wheedle out a good alms by a touch of the brogue . 
And , indeed , as soon as the Albanian had laughed at me I was pretty much at rest . 
Almost in the mouth of the estuary , we passed the cruiser , and a little after the poor SARAH with her prize crew and these were both sights to make us tremble . 
The Bermudan seemed a very safe place to be in , and our bold stroke to have been fortunately played , when we were thus reminded of the case of our companions . 
From many circumstances , it chanced we were safer than we could have dared to hope . 
The town of Albany was at that time much concerned in contraband trade across the desert with the Indians and the French . 
This , as it was highly illegal , relaxed their loyalty , and as it brought them in relation with the politest people on the earth , divided even their sympathies . 
In short , they were like all the smugglers in the world , spies and agents ready made for either party . 
Our Albanian , besides , was a very honest man indeed , and very greedy and , to crown our luck , he conceived a great delight in our society . 
For all this we were to pay at a high rate but beggars cannot be choosers , nor outlaws bargainers . 
We sailed , then , up the Hudson River , which , I protest , is a very fine stream , and put up at the King's Arms in Albany . 
The town was full of the militia of the province , breathing slaughter against the French . 
Governor Clinton was there himself , a very busy man , and , by what I could learn , very near distracted by the factiousness of his Assembly . 
scalps , both male and female , for which they were paid at a fixed rate and I assure you the sight was not encouraging . 
This , too , proved to be fortunate and it's one of the remarks that fall to be made upon our escape , how providentially our steps were conducted to the very end . 
To the toils and perils of this journey , it would require a pen more elegant than mine to do full justice . 
The reader must conceive for himself the dreadful wilderness which we had now to thread its thickets , swamps , precipitous rocks , impetuous rivers , and amazing waterfalls . 
It was our design to mount the headwaters of the Hudson , to the neighbourhood of Crown Point , where the French had a strong place in the woods , upon Lake Champlain . 
But to have done this directly were too perilous and it was accordingly gone upon by such a labyrinth of rivers , lakes , and portages as makes my head giddy to remember . 
These paths were in ordinary times entirely desert but the country was now up , the tribes on the war path , the woods full of Indian scouts . 
It passed off harmlessly , indeed , as did the rest of our encounters for Chew was well known and highly valued among the different tribes . 
Indeed , he was a very gallant , respectable young man but even with the advantage of his companionship , you must not think these meetings were without sensible peril . 
, it behoved us to set forth and paddle for our scalps . 
Once they were a little drunk , goodbye to any sense or decency they had but the one thought , to get more SCAURA . 
They might easily take it in their heads to give us chase , and had we been overtaken , I had never written these memoirs . 
We were come to the most critical portion of our course , where we might equally expect to fall into the hands of French or English , when a terrible calamity befell us . 
Chew was taken suddenly sick with symptoms like those of poison , and in the course of a few hours expired in the bottom of the canoe . 
Chew , who took a great pride in his knowledge , had indeed often lectured us on the geography and Ballantrae , I believe , would listen . 
The wisdom of my course was soon the more apparent for with all his pains , Ballantrae was no further advanced than myself . 
He knew we must continue to go up one stream then , by way of a portage , down another and then up a third . 
But you are to consider , in a mountain country , how many streams come rolling in from every hand . 
The third day of these wanderings , as we were carrying the canoe upon a rocky portage , she fell , and was entirely bilged . 
The labours of Hercules , so finely described by Homer , were a trifle to what we now underwent . 
Some parts of the forest were perfectly dense down to the ground , so that we must cut our way like mites in a cheese . 
In some the bottom was full of deep swamp , and the whole wood entirely rotten . 
A little before sundown , in an open place with a stream , and set about with barbarous mountains , Ballantrae threw down his pack . 
I will go no further , said he , and bade me light the fire , damning my blood in terms not proper for a chairman . 
I told him to try to forget he had ever been a pirate , and to remember he had been a gentleman . 
Are you mad ? he cried . 
I took a certain horror of the man , for I thought a soldier and a gentleman should confront his end with more philosophy . 
I made him no reply , therefore , in words and presently the evening fell so chill that I was glad , for my own sake , to kindle a fire . 
And yet God knows , in such an open spot , and the country alive with savages , the act was little short of lunacy . 
Ballantrae seemed never to observe me but at last , as I was about parching a little corn , he looked up . 
Have you ever a brother ? said be . 
By the blessing of Heaven , said I , not less than five . 
I have the one , said he , with a strange voice and then presently , He shall pay me for all this , he added . 
The explosion was in all ways so foreign to my friend's nature that I was daunted out of all my just susceptibility . 
Sure , an offensive expression , however vivacious , appears a wonderfully small affair in circumstances so extreme ! But here there is a strange thing to be noted . 
He had only once before referred to the lady with whom he was contracted . 
I am the least superstitious of men but the hand of Providence is here displayed too openly not to be remarked . 
I know no better way , said he , to express my scorn of human reason . 
I cannot describe how dreadfully this sight affected us but it robbed me of all strength and all hope for this world . 
Yet I suppose we endured a greater agony of hesitation and suspense in these few minutes than goes usually to a man's whole life . 
They may be of the English side , I whispered and think ! the best we could then hope , is to begin this over again . 
I know I know , he said . 
Yet it must come to a plunge at last . 
And he suddenly plucked out his coin , shook it in his closed hands , looked at it , and then lay down with his face in the dust . 
quite incompatible with the nature of either of the men . 
Henceforth they wandered alone , undergoing extraordinary sufferings until first one and then the other was picked up by a party from Fort St . 
Only two things are to be noted . 
And second , that on his coming thus penniless to the Fort , he was welcomed like a brother by the Chevalier , who thence paid his way to France . 
I have the more pleasure in pointing to this really very noble trait of my esteemed correspondent , as I fear I may have wounded him immediately before . 
immoral opinions , for I know him to be jealous of respect . 
But his version of the quarrel is really more than I can reproduce for I knew the Master myself , and a man more insusceptible of fear is not conceivable . 
strikes me as highly ingenuous . 
You can guess on what part of his adventures the Colonel principally dwelled . 
Indeed , if we had heard it all , it is to be thought the current of this business had been wholly altered but the pirate ship was very gently touched upon . 
bade me follow him immediately to the office . 
Once there , he sought no longer to dissemble his concern , walking to and fro in the room with a contorted face , and passing his hand repeatedly upon his brow . 
We have some business , he began at last and there broke off , declared we must have wine , and sent for a magnum of the best . 
This was extremely foreign to his habitudes and what was still more so , when the wine had come , he gulped down one glass upon another like a man careless of appearances . 
But the drink steadied him . 
You will scarce be surprised , Mackellar , says he , when I tell you that my brother whose safety we are all rejoiced to learn stands in some need of money . 
I told him I had misdoubted as much but the time was not very fortunate , as the stock was low . 
Not mine , said he . 
There is the money for the mortgage . 
I reminded him it was Mrs. Henry's . 
I will be answerable to my wife , he cried violently . 
And then , said I , there is the mortgage . 
I know , said he it is on that I would consult you . 
This is midsummer madness , cried I and I for one will be no party to it . 
You speak as though I did it for my pleasure , says he . 
But I have a child now and , besides , I love order and to say the honest truth , Mackellar , I had begun to take a pride in the estates . 
He gloomed for a moment . 
But what would you have ? he went on . 
Nothing is mine , nothing . 
This day's news has knocked the bottom out of my life . 
I have only the name and the shadow of things only the shadow there is no substance in my rights . 
I have borne all this too long . 
See what he writes further on read it for yourself 'I know you are a niggardly dog . 
A niggardly dog ! I niggardly ? Is that true , Mackellar ? You think it is ? I really thought he would have struck me at that . 
Oh , you all think so ! Well , you shall see , and he shall see , and God shall see . 
If I ruin the estate and go barefoot , I shall stuff this bloodsucker . 
Let him ask all all , and he shall have it ! It is all his by rights . 
Ah ! he cried , and I foresaw all this , and worse , when he would not let me go . 
He poured out another glass of wine , and was about to carry it to his lips , when I made so bold as to lay a finger on his arm . 
You are right , said he , and flung glass and all in the fireplace . 
Come , let us count the money . 
This done , Mr. Henry returned to the hall , where he and my old lord sat all night through with their guest . 
A little before dawn I was called and set out with the Colonel . 
It was a very bitter morning of wind , and as we went down through the long shrubbery the Colonel held himself muffled in his cloak . 
Sir , said I , this is a great sum of money that your friend requires . 
I must suppose his necessities to be very great . 
We must suppose so , says he , I thought drily but perhaps it was the cloak about his mouth . 
I am only a servant of the family , said I. You may deal openly with me . 
And then he seemed to me to pause like one in a difficulty . 
By this time we had come to the side of the creek , where the boat awaited him . 
What passed in the interval I had none to tell me , but I found Mrs. Henry , upon my return , much changed in her demeanour . 
I am to conceal no truth and I will here say plainly , I think this was the period in which Mr. Henry showed the worst . 
He contained himself , indeed , in public but there was a deep seated irritation visible underneath . 
, there went a shook through the whole company , and the pair would look upon each other in a kind of pained amazement . 
The freetraders came again and again , bringing messengers from the Master , and none departed empty handed . 
I never durst reason with Mr. Henry he gave what was asked of him in a kind of noble rage . 
Perhaps because he knew he was by nature inclining to the parsimonious , he took a backforemost pleasure in the recklessness with which he supplied his brother's exigence . 
Perhaps the falsity of the position would have spurred a humbler man into the same excess . 
You are to suppose that for seven years this bloodsucker had been drawing the life's blood from Durrisdeer , and that all this time my patron had held his peace . 
It was an effect of devilish malice in the Master that he addressed Mr. Henry alone upon the matter of his demands , and there was never a word to my lord . 
The family had looked on , wondering at our economies . 
At this time I believe my patron and his wife were rarely together , save at meals . 
I never had the heart to blame Mr. Henry because he recoiled from these advances nor yet to censure the wife , when she was cut to the quick by their rejection . 
they rarely spoke , except at meals . 
Even the matter of the Edinburgh visit was first broached at table , and it chanced that Mrs. Henry was that day ailing and querulous . 
She had no sooner understood her husband's meaning than the red flew in her face . 
At last , she cried , this is too much ! Heaven knows what pleasure I have in my life , that I should be denied my only consolation . 
These shameful proclivities must be trod down we are already a mark and an eyesore in the neighbourhood . 
I will not endure this fresh insanity . 
I cannot afford it , says Mr. Henry . 
For shame ! But I have money of my own . 
That is all mine , madam , by marriage , he snarled , and instantly left the room . 
My old lord threw up his hands to Heaven , and he and his daughter , withdrawing to the chimney , gave me a broad hint to be gone . 
I found Mr. Henry in his usual retreat , the steward's room , perched on the end of the table , and plunging his penknife in it with a very ugly countenance . 
Mr. Henry , said I , you do yourself too much injustice , and it is time this should cease . 
Oh ! cries he , nobody minds here . 
They think it only natural . 
I am a niggardly dog , and he drove his knife up to the hilt . 
But I will show that fellow , he cried with an oath , I will show him which is the more generous . 
This is no generosity , said I this is only pride . 
Do you think I want morality ? he asked . 
She openly showed her wonder . 
What do you want with me , Mr. Mackellar ? said she . 
The Lord knows , madam , says I , I have never troubled you before with any freedoms but this thing lies too hard upon my conscience , and it will out . 
Do you not know where his money goes to ? his and yours and the money for the very wine he does not drink at table ? I went on . 
It in impossible the estate is not sufficient . 
God knows how we have sweated farthings to produce it , said I. But eight thousand and sixty is the sum , beside odd shillings . 
And if you can think my patron miserly after that , this shall be my last interference . 
You need say no more , Mr. Mackellar , said she . 
You have done most properly in what you too modestly call your interference . 
, but I shall put this right at once . 
The Master was always of a very thoughtless nature but his heart is excellent he is the soul of generosity . 
I shall write to him myself . 
You cannot think how you have pained me by this communication . 
Indeed , madam , I had hoped to have pleased you , said I , for I raged to see her still thinking of the Master . 
And pleased , said she , and pleased me of course . 
By this , I was sure his wife had made him full amends for once . 
Ah , thought I to myself , I have done a brave stroke this day . 
from the Master , he got nothing away with him but a letter . 
For some while back it had been I myself who had conducted these affairs Mr. Henry not setting pen to paper , and I only in the dryest and most formal terms . 
Things went better now in the family , though it could scarce be pretended they went well . 
her brooding on another man . 
I had never much natural sympathy for the passion of love but this unreason in my patron's wife disgusted me outright with the whole matter . 
, but I have never had much toleration for the female sex , possibly not much understanding and being far from a bold man , I have ever shunned their company . 
Not only do I see no cause to regret this diffidence in myself , but have invariably remarked the most unhappy consequences follow those who were less wise . 
So much I thought proper to set down , lest I show myself unjust to Mrs. Henry . 
Letter from Colonel BURKE to MR . 
to be the humble and respected friend of and a conversation I had the pleasure to have with you very early in the morning has remained much upon my mind . 
at my friend , the Master of B. and a fair opportunity occurring , I write to inform you of what's new . 
was in receipt , as I think I then told you , of a highly advantageous pension on the Scots Fund . 
He next received a company , and was soon after advanced to a regiment of his own . 
But our friend has a particular aptitude to succeed by the means of ladies and if all be true that I have heard , he enjoyed a remarkable protection . 
My dear sir , the loyalty of a plain Irishman will ultimately succeed in the place of craft as I am sure a gentleman of your probity will agree . 
but for this he would require more money than was readily at his command . 
This missive I carried at once to Mr. Henry and I think there was but the one thought between the two of us that it had come a week too late . 
But with all my haste I was not in time to avert what was impending the arrow had been drawn , it must now fly . 
I say , I questioned the tenants for with the traders themselves , desperate blades that went habitually armed , I could never bring myself to meddle willingly . 
somewhat merry , had caused me to dance for their diversion . 
It happened on the afternoon of November th , in this same unfortunate year , that I espied , during my walk , the smoke of a beacon fire upon the Muckleross . 
She was plainly but new come to anchor , and yet the skiff was already lowered and pulling for the landing place at the end of the long shrubbery . 
And this I knew could signify but one thing , the coming of a messenger for Durrisdeer . 
As he so stood , he waved the cane to Captain Crail by way of salutation , with something both of grace and mockery that wrote the gesture deeply on my mind . 
I did so with a heart like lead . 
Here , my good man , said he , in the English accent , there are some things for Durrisdeer . 
At the same time he had a better look at me , toised me a second time sharply , and then smiled . 
I wager , my friend , says he , that I know both your name and your nickname . 
I divined these very clothes upon your hand of writing , Mr. Mackellar . 
At these words I fell to shaking . 
Oh , says he , you need not be afraid of me . 
I bear no malice for your tedious letters and it is my purpose to employ you a good deal . 
it is so I have curtailed my own . 
Come now , pick up that and that indicating two of the portmanteaus . 
That will be as much as you are fit to bear , and the rest can very well wait . 
Come , lose no more time , if you please . 
His tone was so cutting that I managed to do as he bid by a sort of instinct , my mind being all the time quite lost . 
On a sudden I set the portmanteaus to the ground and halted . 
He turned and looked back at me . 
You are the Master of Ballantrae ? You will do me the justice to observe , says he , I have made no secret with the astute Mackellar . 
And in the name of God , cries I , what brings you here ? Go back , while it is yet time . 
I thank you , said he . 
must abide by the result . 
And now pick up these things of mine , which you have set down in a very boggy place , and attend to that which I have made your business . 
But I had no thought now of obedience I came straight up to him . 
If nothing will move you to go back , said I though , sure , under all the circumstances , any Christian or even any gentleman would scruple to go forward . 
These are gratifying expressions , he threw in . 
If nothing will move you to go back , I continued , there are still some decencies to be observed . 
Wait here with your baggage , and I will go forward and prepare your family . 
Your father is an old man and . 
there are decencies to be observed . 
Truly , said he , this Mackellar improves upon acquaintance . 
But look you here , my man , and understand it once for all you waste your breath upon me , and I go my own way with inevitable motion . 
Ah ! says I. Is that so ? We shall see then ! And I turned and took to my heels for Durrisdeer . 
He has come , I panted out at last . 
He ? said Mr. Henry . 
Himself , said I. My son ? cried my lord . 
Imprudent , imprudent boy ! Oh , could he not stay where he was safe ! Never a word says Mrs. Henry nor did I look at her , I scarce knew why . 
There was still light enough overhead to recognise , though not to read , a countenance . 
Ah ! Jacob , says the Master . 
So here is Esau back . 
James , says Mr. Henry , for God's sake , call me by my name . 
I will not pretend that I am glad to see you but I would fain make you as welcome as I can in the house of our fathers . 
Or in MY house ? or YOURS ? says the Master . 
Which were you about to say ? But this is an old sore , and we need not rub it . 
And you understand the power of your position excellently well . 
Why , I believe I do , said the other with a little laugh . 
the end of the brothers' meeting for at this the Master turned to me and bade me fetch his baggage . 
I , on my side , turned to Mr. Henry for a confirmation perhaps with some defiance . 
As long as the Master is here , Mr. Mackellar , you will very much oblige me by regarding his wishes as you would my own , says Mr. Henry . 
We are constantly troubling you will you be so good as send one of the servants ? with an accent on the word . 
If this speech were anything at all , it was surely a well deserved reproof upon the stranger and yet , so devilish was his impudence , he twisted it the other way . 
And shall we be common enough to say 'Sneck up' ? inquires he softly , looking upon me sideways . 
It was dark under the trees , and I walked before me and forgot what business I was come upon , till I near broke my shin on the portmanteaus . 
Then it was that I remarked a strange particular for whereas I had before carried both and scarce observed it , it was now as much as I could do to manage one . 
And this , as it forced me to make two journeys , kept me the longer from the hall . 
I had seen one side of the Master's return now I was to see the other . 
He jumped from his seat . 
And if I have not got the good Mackellar's place ! cries he . 
John , lay another for Mr. Bally I protest he will disturb no one , and your table is big enough for all . 
Yet all was of a piece . 
Never a harsh word fell from him , never a sneer showed upon his lip . 
As soon as supper was over , Mrs. Henry rose to withdraw . 
This was never your way , Alison , said he . 
On my part , I thought I was now one too many and was stealing after Mrs. Henry , when the Master saw me . 
Now , Mr. Mackellar , says he , I take this near on an unfriendliness . 
Ay , ay , Mr. Mackellar , says my lord , we must not make a stranger either of him or you . 
I have been telling my son , he added , his voice brightening as usual on the word , how much we valued all your friendly service . 
So I sat there , silent , till my usual hour and might have been almost deceived in the man's nature but for one passage , in which his perfidy appeared too plain . 
Here was the passage of which , after what he knows of the brothers' meeting , the reader shall consider for himself . 
All's yours , that's sure enough , and little I grudge it you . 
Neither must you grudge me my place beside my father's fire . 
And that is too true , Henry , says my old lord with a little frown , a thing rare with him . 
You have been the elder brother of the parable in the good sense you must be careful of the other . 
I am easily put in the wrong , said Mr. Henry . 
Who puts you in the wrong ? cried my lord , I thought very tartly for so mild a man . 
You have earned my gratitude and your brother's many thousand times you may count on its endurance and let that suffice . 
Ay , Harry , that you may , said the Master and I thought Mr. Henry looked at him with a kind of wildness in his eye . 
When I was alone with him , he pursued me with sneers before the family he used me with the extreme of friendly condescension . 
This was not only painful in itself not only did it put me continually in the wrong but there was in it an element of insult indescribable . 
That he should thus leave me out in his dissimulation , as though even my testimony were too despicable to be considered , galled me to the blood . 
But what it was to me is not worth notice . 
I make but memorandum of it here and chiefly for this reason , that it had one good result , and gave me the quicker sense of Mr. Henry's martyrdom . 
It was on him the burthen fell . 
He was condemned to silence . 
And Mr. Henry , who had been goaded by the man all morning , raps out I will not . 
I sometimes wish you would be kinder , Henry , says the other , wistfully . 
I give this for a specimen but such scenes befell continually . 
Small wonder if Mr. Henry was blamed small wonder if I fretted myself into something near upon a bilious fever nay , and at the mere recollection feel a bitterness in my blood . 
Sure , never in this world was a more diabolical contrivance so perfidious , so simple , so impossible to combat . 
, they were blinded by old ingrained predilection . 
made it seem the more ungenerous to criticise and , keeping them in a perpetual tender solicitude about his life , blinded them the more effectually to his faults . 
It was during this time that I perceived most clearly the effect of manner , and was led to lament most deeply the plainness of my own . 
he fell short of the ornamental . 
had never a movement but it commanded him . 
So it befell that when the one appeared gracious and the other ungracious , every trick of their bodies seemed to call out confirmation . 
he was supposed to stand . 
He spoke of it to those who loved him with a gentle pleasantry , which made it the more touching . 
To Mr. Henry he used it as a cruel weapon of offence . 
I remember his laying his finger on the clean lozenge of the painted window one day when we three were alone together in the hall . 
Here went your lucky guinea , Jacob , said he . 
And when Mr. Henry only looked upon him darkly , Oh ! he added , you need not look such impotent malice , my good fly . 
You can be rid of your spider when you please . 
How long , O Lord ? When are you to be wrought to the point of a denunciation , scrupulous brother ? It is one of my interests in this dreary hole . 
Not but what he had a trouble of his own and this , as it brought about the gravest consequences , I must now relate . 
I own I rubbed my hands over this persecution but the Master , who laid so much upon others , was himself the least patient of men . 
There were strange scenes enacted in the policies . 
Some say he took his cane to her , and Jessie fell back upon her former weapons stones . 
It is certain at least that he made a motion to Captain Crail to have the woman trepanned , and that the Captain refused the proposition with uncommon vehemence . 
And the end of the matter was victory for Jessie . 
, and , by the only news I ever had of it , extremely ill frequented . 
This is to look forward . 
I cannot well move in the matter myself , which brings me to you . 
Be so good as to see to it the men must have a strict injunction to drive the wench away . 
Sir , said I , trembling a little , you can do your own dirty errands for yourself . 
He said not a word to that , and left the room . 
Here is news ! cried he . 
It seems all is not enough , and you must add to my wretchedness . 
It seems you have insulted Mr. Bally . 
Under your kind favour , Mr. Henry , said I , it was he that insulted me , and , as I think , grossly . 
But I may have been careless of your position when I spoke and if you think so when you know all , my dear patron , you have but to say the word . 
For you I would obey in any point whatever , even to sin , God pardon me ! And thereupon I told him what had passed . 
Mr. Henry smiled to himself a grimmer smile I never witnessed . 
You did exactly well , said he . 
He shall drink his Jessie Broun to the dregs . 
And then , spying the Master outside , he opened the window , and crying to him by the name of Mr. Bally , asked him to step up and have a word . 
I need not tell you I would always take his word against yours for we are alone , and I am going to use something of your own freedom . 
My father's servants , I believe , says the Master . 
Go to him with this tale , said Mr. Henry . 
The Master grew very white . 
He pointed at me with his finger . 
I want that man discharged , he said . 
He shall not be , said Mr. Henry . 
You shall pay pretty dear for this , says the Master . 
I have paid so dear already for a wicked brother , said Mr. Henry , that I am bankrupt even of fears . 
You have no place left where you can strike me . 
I will show you about that , says the Master , and went softly away . 
What will he do next , Mackellar ? cries Mr. Henry . 
Let me go away , said I. My dear patron , let me go away I am but the beginning of fresh sorrows . 
Would you leave me quite alone ? said he . 
We were not long in suspense as to the nature of the new assault . 
The first parallel was opened by accident . 
The talk fell , as it did often , on the exiles in France so it glided to the matter of their songs . 
There is one , says the Master , if you are curious in these matters , that has always seemed to me very moving . 
The poetry is harsh and yet , perhaps because of my situation , it has always found the way to my heart . 
in his natural voice so that , before the lights were brought , we were in the usual course of talk . 
But even then , methought Mrs. Henry's face was a shade pale and , for another thing , she withdrew almost at once . 
Like all his diabolical acts , this cut in several ways . 
it was a bond of union between the lady and the Master . 
Under this influence , their old reserve melted by daily stages . 
Presently there came walks in the long shrubbery , talks in the Belvedere , and I know not what tender familiarity . 
I am sure Mrs. Henry was like many a good woman she had a whole conscience but perhaps by the means of a little winking . 
For even to so dull an observer as myself , it was plain her kindness was of a more moving nature than the sisterly . 
To look on at this , what a torment it was for Mr. Henry ! And yet it brought our ultimate deliverance , as I am soon to tell . 
than to wring money out . 
He had some design of a fortune in the French Indies , as the Chevalier wrote me and it was the sum required for this that he came seeking . 
For the rest of the family it spelled ruin but my lord , in his incredible partiality , pushed ever for the granting . 
that it was possible to break the entail and alienate a piece of land . 
And to this , at first by hints , and then by open pressure , Mr. Henry was brought to consent . 
He never would have done so , I am very well assured , but for the weight of the distress under which he laboured . 
But for his passionate eagerness to see his brother gone , he would not thus have broken with his own sentiment and the traditions of his house . 
And even so , he sold them his consent at a dear rate , speaking for once openly , and holding the business up in its own shameful colours . 
You will observe , he said , this is an injustice to my son , if ever I have one . 
But that you are not likely to have , said my lord . 
God knows ! says Mr. Henry . 
Acts are the fair test . 
My lord was the most uneasy man I ever saw even in his old face the blood came up . 
I think this is not a very wisely chosen moment , Henry , for complaints , said he . 
This takes away from the merit of your generosity . 
Do not deceive yourself , my lord , said Mr. Henry . 
This injustice is not done from generosity to him , but in obedience to yourself . 
begins my lord , still more unhappily affected . 
There is no one but Mackellar here , said Mr. Henry he is my friend . 
And , my lord , as you make him no stranger to your frequent blame , it were hard if I must keep him one to a thing so rare as my defence . 
Almost I believe my lord would have rescinded his decision but the Master was on the watch . 
Ah ! Henry , Henry , says he , you are the best of us still . 
Rugged and true ! Ah ! man , I wish I was as good . 
And at that instance of his favourite's generosity my lord desisted from his hesitation , and the deed was signed . 
Or so he said though I have suspected since it did not go so far . 
You will observe I say from the orders of Government for about this time the man's disreputable secret trickled out . 
There is one thing , said he , that I cannot but think strange and that is how he got to Cockermouth . 
To Cockermouth ? said I , with a sudden memory of my first wonder on beholding the man disembark so point de vice after so long a voyage . 
Why , yes , says the tenant , it was there he was picked up by Captain Crail . 
You thought he had come from France by sea ? And so we all did . 
I turned this news a little in my head , and then carried it to Mr. Henry . 
Here is an odd circumstance , said I , and told him . 
What matters how he came , Mackellar , so long as he is here ? groans Mr. Henry . 
Stop , said Mr. Henry . 
Let me think of this . 
And as he thought , there came that grim smile upon his face that was a little like the Master's . 
Give me paper , said he . 
And he sat without another word and wrote to a gentleman of his acquaintance I will name no unnecessary names , but he was one in a high place . 
Again , as he read it , Mr. Henry had the same grim smile . 
This is the best you have done for me yet , Mackellar , says he . 
With this in my hand I will give him a shog . 
Watch for us at dinner . 
At dinner accordingly Mr. Henry proposed some very public appearance for the Master and my lord , as he had hoped , objected to the danger of the course . 
Oh ! says Mr. Henry , very easily , you need no longer keep this up with me . 
I am as much in the secret as yourself . 
In the secret ? says my lord . 
What do you mean , Henry ? I give you my word , I am in no secret from which you are excluded . 
The Master had changed countenance , and I saw he was struck in a joint of his harness . 
How ? says Mr. Henry , turning to him with a huge appearance of surprise . 
I see you serve your masters very faithfully but I had thought you would have been humane enough to set your father's mind at rest . 
What are you talking of ? I refuse to have my business publicly discussed . 
I order this to cease , cries the Master very foolishly and passionately , and indeed more like a child than a man . 
So much discretion was not looked for at your hands , I can assure you , continued Mr. Henry . 
Mr. Bally is as safe in Great Britain as yourself . 
Is this possible ? cries my lord , looking at his son , with a great deal of wonder and still more of suspicion in his face . 
My dear father , says the Master , already much recovered . 
I am overjoyed that this may be disclosed . 
Hence I was the more careful to obey orders . 
I have never yet heard of a Durrisdeer who was a turncoat or a spy , says he , proudly . 
You say the matter is still fresh , says Mr. Henry . 
It is recent , says the Master , with a fair show of stoutness and yet not without a quaver . 
Is it so recent as that ? asks Mr. Henry , like a man a little puzzled , and spreading his letter forth again . 
No , said Mr. Henry , still glancing on his letter , but I remember your expression . 
You said it was very fresh . 
was notably cold in her behaviour to the discredited hero of romance . 
Before a day or two he had wiped off the ill results of his discomfiture , and , to all appearance , stood as high as ever . 
flowed from him in sheer weakness , like the tears of senility . 
Mrs. Henry's was a different case and Heaven alone knows what he found to say to her , or how he persuaded her from her contempt . 
It is one of the worst things of sentiment , that the voice grows to be more important than the words , and the speaker than that which is spoken . 
They were then constantly together . 
It is a strange art that can thus be practised to talk for hours of a thing , and never name nor yet so much as hint at it . 
, yet never startled her into reserve . 
upon the th of February , . 
It was unseasonable weather , a cast back into Winter windless , bitter cold , the world all white with rime , the sky low and gray . 
the sea black and silent like a quarry hole . 
whether a man should do things , whether interference was wise , and the like general propositions , which each of us particularly applied . 
I was by the window , looking out , when there passed below me the Master , Mrs. Henry , and Miss Katharine , that now constant trio . 
a devilish grace of insinuation and she on her part looked on the ground like a person lost in listening . 
I broke out of my reserve . 
If I were you , Mr. Henry , said I , I would deal openly with my lord . 
Mackellar , Mackellar , said he , you do not see the weakness of my ground . 
I can carry no such base thoughts to any one to my father least of all that would be to fall into the bottom of his scorn . 
The weakness of my ground , he continued , lies in myself , that I am not one who engages love . 
There is my loss ! He got to his feet , and trod down the fire . 
But some method must be found , Mackellar , said he , looking at me suddenly over his shoulder some way must be found . 
I am a man of a great deal of patience far too much far too much . 
I begin to despise myself . 
And yet , sure , never was a man involved in such a toil ! He fell back to his brooding . 
Cheer up , said I. It will burst of itself . 
I am far past anger now , says he , which had so little coherency with my own observation that I let both fall . 
CHAPTER V. ACCOUNT OF ALL THAT PASSED ON THE NIGHT ON FEBRUARY TH , . 
If we had done so , and by any chance found out , it might have changed all . 
For I have now come to one of the dark parts of my narrative , and must engage the reader's indulgence for my patron . 
With the coming of night , the haze closed in overhead it fell dark and still and starless , and exceeding cold a night the most unseasonable , fit for strange events . 
Mrs. Henry withdrew , as was now her custom , very early . 
Another thing I should say , that although I never saw the Master anyway affected with liquor , he had been drinking freely , and was perhaps a trifle heated . 
You play , Jacob , like a bonnet laird , or a sailor in a tavern . 
The same dulness , the same petty greed , CETTE LENTEUR D'HEBETE QUI ME FAIT RAGER it is strange I should have such a brother . 
Even Square toes has a certain vivacity when his stake is imperilled but the dreariness of a game with you I positively lack language to depict . 
Mr. Henry continued to look at his cards , as though very maturely considering some play but his mind was elsewhere . 
Dear God , will this never be done ? cries the Master . 
, it is one of my diversions in this very dreary spot to toast you and your master at the fire like chestnuts . 
has always the power to make you writhe . 
But sometimes I have more trouble with this dear fellow here , who seems to have gone to sleep upon his cards . 
Do you not see the applicability of the epithet I have just explained , dear Henry ? Let me show you . 
Mr. Henry laid down his cards . 
He rose to his feet very softly , and seemed all the while like a person in deep thought . 
You coward ! he said gently , as if to himself . 
And then , with neither hurry nor any particular violence , he struck the Master in the mouth . 
The Master sprang to his feet like one transfigured I had never seen the man so beautiful . 
A blow ! he cried . 
I would not take a blow from God Almighty ! Lower your voice , said Mr. Henry . 
Do you wish my father to interfere for you again ? Gentlemen , gentlemen , I cried , and sought to come between them . 
The Master caught me by the shoulder , held me at arm's length , and still addressing his brother Do you know what this means ? said he . 
It was the most deliberate act of my life , says Mr. Henry . 
I must have blood , I must have blood for this , says the Master . 
Please God it shall be yours , said Mr. Henry and he went to the wall and took down a pair of swords that hung there with others , naked . 
These he presented to the Master by the points . 
Mackellar shall see us play fair , said Mr. Henry . 
I think it very needful . 
You need insult me no more , said the Master , taking one of the swords at random . 
I have hated you all my life . 
My father is but newly gone to bed , said Mr. Henry . 
We must go somewhere forth of the house . 
There is an excellent place in the long shrubbery , said the Master . 
It is what I will prevent , said I. And now here is a blot upon my life . 
No , no , I cried , like a baby . 
We shall have no more trouble with him , said the Master . 
It is a good thing to have a coward in the house . 
We must have light , said Mr. Henry , as though there had been no interruption . 
This trembler can bring a pair of candles , said the Master . 
To my shame be it said , I was still so blinded with the flashing of that bare sword that I volunteered to bring a lantern . 
We do not need a l l lantern , says the Master , mocking me . 
There is no breath of air . 
Come , get to your feet , take a pair of lights , and go before . 
I am close behind with this making . 
the blade glitter as he spoke . 
Never a word was said there was never a sound but the creaking of our steps along the frozen path . 
Here is the place , said the Master . 
The light is something in my eyes , said the Master . 
I will give you every advantage , replied Mr. Henry , shifting his ground , for I think you are about to die . 
He spoke rather sadly than otherwise , yet there was a ring in his voice . 
Henry Durie , said the Master , two words before I begin . 
You are a fencer , you can hold a foil you little know what a change it makes to hold a sword ! And by that I know you are to fall . 
But see how strong is my situation ! If you fall , I shift out of this country to where my money is before me . 
Never a word said Mr. Henry , but saluted too , and the swords rang together . 
To it they went again , on the fresh ground but now methought closer , Mr. Henry pressing more outrageously , the Master beyond doubt with shaken confidence . 
For it is beyond doubt he now recognised himself for lost , and had some taste of the cold agony of fear or he had never attempted the foul stroke . 
Look at his left hand . 
It is all bloody , said I. On the inside ? said he . 
It is cut on the inside , said I. I thought so , said he , and turned his back . 
I opened the man's clothes the heart was quite still , it gave not a flutter . 
God forgive us , Mr. Henry ! said I. He is dead . 
Dead ? he repeated , a little stupidly and then with a rising tone , Dead ? dead ? says he , and suddenly cast his bloody sword upon the ground . 
What must we do ? said I. Be yourself , sir . 
It is too late now you must be yourself . 
He turned and stared at me . 
Oh , Mackellar ! says he , and put his face in his hands . 
I plucked him by the coat . 
For God's sake , for all our sakes , be more courageous ! said I. What must we do ? He showed me his face with the same stupid stare . 
Mr. Henry , Mr. Henry , I said , this will be the ruin of us all . 
The word knocked at my heart but it was no time for weakness . 
I went and poured him out a glass of brandy . 
Drink that , said I , drink it down . 
I forced him to swallow it like a child and , being still perished with the cold of the night , I followed his example . 
It has to be told , Mackellar , said he . 
And he fell suddenly in a seat my old lord's seat by the chimney side and was shaken with dry sobs . 
Dismay came upon my soul it was plain there was no help in Mr. Henry . 
Well , said I , sit there , and leave all to me . 
And taking a candle in my hand , I set forth out of the room in the dark house . 
There was no movement I must suppose that all had gone unobserved and I was now to consider how to smuggle through the rest with the like secrecy . 
It was no hour for scruples and I opened my lady's door without so much as a knock , and passed boldly in . 
There is some calamity happened , she cried , sitting up in bed . 
Madam , said I , I will go forth again into the passage and do you get as quickly as you can into your clothes . 
There is much to be done . 
She troubled me with no questions , nor did she keep me waiting . 
Ere I had time to prepare a word of that which I must say to her , she was on the threshold signing me to enter . 
I am very courageous , said she and she looked at me with a sort of smile , very painful to see , but very brave too . 
It has come to a duel , said I. A duel ? she repeated . 
But to night it went too far , and when he insulted you Stop , said she . 
Forgive me put me out of this suspense . 
Madam , said I , we are speaking of two men one of them insulted you , and you ask me which . 
I will help you to the answer . 
I am made up I can hear all . 
You are not fit to hear , said I. Whatever it was , you shall say first it was your fault . 
I think of none but my dear unhappy master . 
Ah ! she cried , with her hand to her heart , is Henry dead ? Lower your voice , said I. The other . 
I saw her sway like something stricken by the wind and I know not whether in cowardice or misery , turned aside and looked upon the floor . 
There is Miss Katharine , besides , I added unless we bring this matter through , her inheritance is like to be of shame . 
And the next moment she had found a sort of voice . 
It was a fight , she whispered . 
It was not and she paused upon the word . 
It was a fair fight on my dear master's part , said I. As for the other , he was slain in the very act of a foul stroke . 
Not now ! she cried . 
Madam , said I , hatred of that man glows in my bosom like a burning fire ay , even now he is dead . 
God knows , I would have stopped the fighting , had I dared . 
It is my shame I did not . 
But when I saw him fall , if I could have spared one thought from pitying of my master , it had been to exult in that deliverance . 
Madam , said I , have you not some one else to think of ? Leave my lord to me . 
Some one else ? she repeated . 
Your husband , said I. She looked at me with a countenance illegible . 
Are you going to turn your back on him ? I asked . 
Still she looked at me then her hand went to her heart again . 
God bless you for that word ! I said . 
God strengthen you , and make you merciful , said she . 
I will go to my husband . 
Let me light you there , said I , taking up the candle . 
I will find my way in the dark , she said , with a shudder , and I think the shudder was at me . 
So we separated she down stairs to where a little light glimmered in the hall door , I along the passage to my lord's room . 
It seems hard to say why , but I could not burst in on the old man as I could on the young woman with whatever reluctance , I must knock . 
But his old slumbers were light , or perhaps he slept not and at the first summons I was bidden enter . 
not bigger than a child's . 
This daunted me nor less , the haggard surmise of misfortune in his eye . 
Yet his voice was even peaceful as he inquired my errand . 
I set my candle down upon a chair , leaned on the bed foot , and looked at him . 
Lord Durrisdeer , said I , it is very well known to you that I am a partisan in your family . 
I hope we are none of us partisans , said he . 
That you love my son sincerely , I have always been glad to recognise . 
Oh ! my lord , we are past the hour of these civilities , I replied . 
If we are to save anything out of the fire , we must look the fact in its bare countenance . 
A partisan I am partisans we have all been it is as a partisan that I am here in the middle of the night to plead before you . 
Hear me before I go , I will tell you why . 
You spoke once before to very proper purpose I have not forgotten that . 
I am here to plead the cause of my master , I said . 
I need not tell you how he acts . 
You know how he is placed . 
You know with what generosity , he has always met your other met your wishes , I corrected myself , stumbling at that name of son . 
You know you must know what he has suffered what he has suffered about his wife . 
Mr. Mackellar ! cried my lord , rising in bed like a bearded lion . 
You said you would hear me , I continued . 
What you do not know , what you should know , one of the things I am here to speak of , is the persecution he must bear in private . 
All these months it has endured it began with the man's landing it was by the name of Jacob that my master was greeted the first night . 
My lord made a movement as if to throw aside the clothes and rise . 
If there be any truth in this said he . 
Do I look like a man lying ? I interrupted , checking him with my hand . 
You should have told me at first , he odd . 
Ah , my lord ! indeed I should , and you may well hate the face of this unfaithful servant ! I cried . 
I will take order , said he , at once . 
And again made the movement to rise . 
I have not done , said I. Would God I had ! All this my dear , unfortunate patron has endured without help or countenance . 
Your own best word , my lord , was only gratitude . 
Oh , but he was your son , too ! He had no other father . 
He was hated in the country , God knows how unjustly . 
He had a loveless marriage . 
But you do me some injustice . 
Henry has been ever dear to me , very dear . 
And even now his is the more affectionate nature . 
But I will not speak of him . 
Mr. Mackellar , I will make it up to him I will take order with all this . 
You have not been weak you have been abused by a devilish dissembler . 
You saw yourself how he had deceived you in the matter of his danger he has deceived you throughout in every step of his career . 
I made some gesture of despair that struck him he looked at me with a changed face . 
There is much worse behind ? he asked , his voice dying as it rose upon the question . 
Much worse , I answered . 
This night he said these words to Mr. Henry 'I have never known a woman who did not prefer me to you , and I think who did not continue to prefer me . 
I think not of blaming her , cried I. It is not that . 
I must fly to them , he said , beginning once again to leave his bed . 
No , no ! I cried , holding forth my hands . 
You do not know , said he . 
Will nothing make you understand , my lord ? said I. His eyes besought me for the truth . 
I flung myself on my knees by the bedside . 
Think of him , even as he thought of you . 
'WHO IS TO TELL THE OLD MAN ? these were his words . 
It was for that I came that is why I am here pleading at your feet . 
Let me get up , he cried , thrusting me aside , and was on his feet before myself . 
His voice shook like a sail in the wind , yet he spoke with a good loudness his face was like the snow , but his eyes were steady and dry . 
Here is too much speech , said he . 
Where was it ? In the shrubbery , said I. And Mr. Henry ? he asked . 
And when I had told him he knotted his old face in thought . 
And Mr. James ? says he . 
I have left him lying , said I , beside the candles . 
And with that he ran to the window , opened it , and looked abroad . 
It might be spied from the road . 
Where none goes by at such an hour , I objected . 
It makes no matter , he said . 
What is that ? It was the sound of men very guardedly rowing in the bay and I told him so . 
The freetraders , said my lord . 
Run at once , Mackellar put these candles out . 
I will dress in the meanwhile and when you return we can debate on what is wisest . 
I groped my way downstairs , and out at the door . 
How much more sharply when I reached the place ! One of the candlesticks was overthrown , and that taper quenched . 
The other burned steadily by itself , and made a broad space of light upon the frosted ground . 
All within that circle seemed , by the force of contrast and the overhanging blackness , brighter than by day . 
And there was the bloodstain in the midst and a little farther off Mr. Henry's sword , the pommel of which was of silver but of the body , not a trace . 
My heart thumped upon my ribs , the hair stirred upon my scalp , as I stood there staring so strange was the sight , so dire the fears it wakened . 
I looked right and left the ground was so hard , it told no story . 
In the door a figure moved to meet me , and I had near screamed with terror ere I recognised Mrs. Henry . 
Have you told him ? says she . 
It was he who sent me , said I. It is gone . 
But why are you here ? It is gone ! she repeated . 
What is gone ? The body , said I. Why are you not with your husband ? Gone ! said she . 
There is no light now , said I. I dare not . 
I can see in the dark . 
I have been standing here so long so long , said she . 
Come , give me your hand . 
We returned to the shrubbery hand in hand , and to the fatal place . 
Take care of the blood , said I. Blood ? she cried , and started violently back . 
I suppose it will be , said I. I am like a blind man . 
And then , with an instant courage , handled it the second time , and thrust it to the hilt into the frozen ground . 
I will take it back and clean it properly , says she , and again looked about her on all sides . 
It cannot be that he was dead ? she added . 
Not speak to you ? I repeated . 
Oh ! you have not tried . 
You have a right to doubt me , she replied , with a gentle dignity . 
At this , for the first time , I was seized with sorrow for her . 
It is hard , then , you should hesitate about his wife , said she . 
I saw all at once , like the rending of a veil , how nobly she had borne this unnatural calamity , and how generously my reproaches . 
We must go back and tell this to my lord , said I. Him I cannot face , she cried . 
You will find him the least moved of all of us , said I. And yet I cannot face him , said she . 
Well , said I , you can return to Mr. Henry I will see my lord . 
As we walked back , I bearing the candlesticks , she the sword a strange burthen for that woman she had another thought . 
Should we tell Henry ? she asked . 
Let my lord decide , said I. My lord was nearly dressed when I came to his chamber . 
He heard me with a frown . 
The freetraders , said he . 
But whether dead or alive ? I thought him said I , and paused , ashamed of the word . 
I know but you may very well have been in error . 
Why should they remove him if not living ? he asked . 
Oh ! here is a great door of hope . 
It must be given out that he departed as he came without any note of preparation . 
We must save all scandal . 
I saw he had fallen , like the rest of us , to think mainly of the house . 
Are we to tell Mr. Henry ? I asked him . 
I will see , said he . 
I am going first to visit him then I go forth with you to view the shrubbery and consider . 
We went downstairs into the hall . 
Mr. Henry sat by the table with his head upon his hand , like a man of stone . 
His wife stood a little back from him , her hand at her mouth it was plain she could not move him . 
My old lord walked very steadily to where his son was sitting he had a steady countenance , too , but methought a little cold . 
Oh ! say you know that . 
Oh ! say you can forgive me . 
, where she stood weeping to hear him , and in a moment had fallen at her knees . 
And O my lass , he cried , you must forgive me , too ! Not your husband I have only been the ruin of your life . 
But you knew me when I was a lad there was no harm in Henry Durie then he meant aye to be a friend to you . 
At the first cry , which was indeed enough to call the house about us , he had said to me over his shoulder , Close the door . 
And now he nodded to himself . 
We may leave him to his wife now , says he . 
Bring a light , Mr. Mackellar . 
It will come to snow , says my lord and the best thing that we could hope . 
Let us go back now we can do nothing in the dark . 
Throughout the whole of this , my lord's clearness of mind , no less than his activity of body , had not ceased to minister to my amazement . 
He set the crown upon it in the council we held on our return . 
True , we still lay at the discretion of the traders but that was the incurable weakness of our guilt . 
I heard him , as I said , with wonder , and hastened to obey . 
To my extreme surprise , it was all in the disorder of departure . 
Of his three portmanteaux , two were already locked the third lay open and near full . 
At once there flashed upon me some suspicion of the truth . 
Nay , and there was more behind . 
This pre arranged departure shed some light upon his inconceivable insult of the night before it was a parting shot , hatred being no longer checked by policy . 
It can never be verified , as I say but as I thought of it that morning among his baggage , the thought was sweet to me like honey . 
Into the open portmanteau I dipped a little ere I closed it . 
But in the open portmanteau , no papers of any description . 
It was possible the man was dead but , since the traders had carried him away , not likely . 
It was possible he might still die of his wound but it was also possible he might not . 
And in this latter case I was determined to have the means of some defence . 
In one of the portmanteaux there was a shagreen letter case , which I cut open with my knife and thenceforth the man was at my mercy . 
I chuckled to myself as I ran through the documents I rubbed my hands , I sang aloud in my glee . 
now tumbling on the Irish Sea . 
It is proper I should add in this place the very little I have subsequently angled out upon the doings of that night . 
It took me a long while to gather it for we dared not openly ask , and the freetraders regarded me with enmity , if not with scorn . 
They held some debate , but they were momently looking for a wind , they were highly paid to smuggle him to France , and did not care to delay . 
So he was taken aboard , recovered on the passage over , and was set ashore a convalescent at the Havre de Grace . 
With any other man I should have set this down to natural decency with him , to pride . 
He could not bear to avow , perhaps even to himself , that he had been vanquished by one whom he had so much insulted whom he so cruelly despised . 
SUMMARY OF EVENTS DURING THE MASTER'S SECOND ABSENCE . 
My old lord called from time to time to take the news , but would not usually pass the door . 
Mr. Henry , his shaven head bound in a napkin , tossed fro without remission , beating the bed with his hands . 
His tongue never lay his voice ran continuously like a river , so that my heart was weary with the sound of it . 
continually of his affairs , cyphering figures and holding disputation with the tenantry . 
This , I say , was affecting , both to Mrs. Henry and myself but the balance of my master's wanderings did him little justice . 
It seemed he had set out to justify his brother's calumnies as though he was bent to prove himself a man of a dry nature , immersed in money getting . 
I was the one person on the surface of the globe that comprehended him , and I was bound there should be yet another . 
But this I found to be the easiest portion of my task , and that which remained namely , the presentation to my lady almost more than I had fortitude to overtake . 
Several days I went about with my papers under my arm , spying for some juncture of talk to serve as introduction . 
This was at night , when I was once more leaving the room , the thing not yet done , and myself in despair at my own cowardice . 
What do you carry about with you , Mr. Mackellar ? she asked . 
These last days , I see you always coming in and out with the same armful . 
I returned upon my steps without a word , laid the papers before her on the table , and left her to her reading . 
It will show , too , the moderation of my part in these affairs , a thing which some have called recklessly in question . 
I append a schedule with some necessary observations , And am , Honoured Madam , Your ladyship's obliged , obedient servant , EPHRAIM MACKELLAR . 
A. Scroll of ten letters from Ephraim Mackellar to the Hon . 
, by courtesy Master of Ballantrae during the latter's residence in Paris under dates . 
Nota to be read in connection with B. and C. B. Seven original letters from the said Mr of Ballantrae to the said E. Mackellar , under dates . 
C. Three original letters from the Mr of Ballantrae to the Hon . 
Nota given me by Mr. Henry to answer copies of my answers A , A , and A of these productions . 
The purport of Mr. Henry's communications , of which I can find no scroll , may be gathered from those of his unnatural brother . 
Nota found among the Master's papers . 
Weary as I was with watching and distress of mind , it was impossible for me to sleep . 
Mrs. Henry had thrown open the shutters and even the window , for the temperature was mild . 
She looked steadfastly before her where was nothing to see , or only the blue of the morning creeping among woods . 
Upon the stir of my entrance she did not so much as turn about her face a circumstance from which I augured very ill . 
Madam , I began and then again , Madam but could make no more of it . 
Nor yet did Mrs. Henry come to my assistance with a word . 
In this pass I began gathering up the papers where they lay scattered on the table and the first thing that struck me , their bulk appeared to have diminished . 
Once I ran them through , and twice but the correspondence with the Secretary of State , on which I had reckoned so much against the future , was nowhere to be found . 
I looked in the chimney amid the smouldering embers , black ashes of paper fluttered in the draught and at that my timidity vanished . 
It is enough , it is too much , that you and I have seen them . 
To save the reputation of that family in which you are a servant , Mr. Mackellar , she returned , and for which you have already done so much . 
It is a family I will not serve much longer , I cried , for I am driven desperate . 
You have stricken the sword out of my hands you have left us all defenceless . 
I wonder to find you so simple , Mr. Mackellar , said Mrs. Henry . 
He would smile in your face at such a threat . 
He stands upon his degradation , he makes that his strength it is in vain to struggle with such characters . 
But if Henry lives , my poor Mr. Mackellar , and that man returns , we must suffer only this time it will be together . 
On the whole I was well pleased with Mrs. Henry's attitude of mind nor could I even deny there was some cogency in that which she advanced about the papers . 
Let us say no more about it , said I. I can only be sorry I trusted a lady with the originals , which was an unbusinesslike proceeding at the best . 
As for what I said of leaving the service of the family , it was spoken with the tongue only and you may set your mind at rest . 
I belong to Durrisdeer , Mrs. Henry , as if I had been born there . 
Mrs. Henry was also in the room , at the bedfoot but it did not appear that he observed her . 
he was so weak that he made but the one effort and sank again into lethargy . 
It was perhaps at this time that Mrs. Henry and I were the most uneasy in mind . 
Apprehension for his days was at an end and a worse fear succeeded . 
Every day we drew consciously nearer to a day of reckoning and the days passed on , and still there was nothing . 
We knew not even which alternative to hope for , both appearing so unnatural and pointing so directly to an unsound brain . 
Once this fear offered , I observed his conduct with sedulous particularity . 
Something of the child he exhibited a cheerfulness quite foreign to his previous character , an interest readily aroused , and then very tenacious , in small matters which he had heretofore despised . 
But to me the change appeared not natural and viewing it along with all the rest , I began to wonder , with many head shakings , whether his reason were perfectly erect . 
As this doubt stretched over many years , endured indeed until my master's death , and clouded all our subsequent relations , I may well consider of it more at large . 
When he was able to resume some charge of his affairs , I had many opportunities to try him with precision . 
True , since we had no longer the exactions of the Master to contend against , there was the less occasion to raise strictness into principle or do battle for a farthing . 
True , again , there was nothing excessive in these relaxations , or I would have been no party to them . 
It was the same to the end , with his manner and appearance . 
Some of the heat of the fever lingered in his veins his movements a little hurried , his speech notably more voluble , yet neither truly amiss . 
It was to this temper that he owed the felicity of his later days and yet here it was , if anywhere , that you could call the man insane . 
It is to this strenuous cowardice of pain that I have to set down all the unfortunate and excessive steps of his subsequent career . 
Certainly this was the reason of his beating McManus , the groom , a thing so much out of all his former practice , and which awakened so much comment at the time . 
But he preferred loss or any desperate extreme to a continuance of mental suffering . 
All this has led me far from our immediate trouble whether he remembered or had forgotten his late dreadful act and if he remembered , in what light he viewed it . 
The truth burst upon us suddenly , and was indeed one of the chief surprises of my life . 
He had been several times abroad , and was now beginning to walk a little with an arm , when it chanced I should be left alone with him upon the terrace . 
Where have you buried him ? he repeated . 
I want to see his grave . 
I conceived I had best take the bull by the horns . 
Mr. Henry , said I , I have news to give that will rejoice you exceedingly . 
In all human likelihood , your hands are clear of blood . 
I reason from certain indices and by these it should appear your brother was not dead , but was carried in a swound on board the lugger . 
But now he may be perfectly recovered . 
What there was in his countenance I could not read . 
Your brother James , I answered . 
I would not raise a hope that may be found deceptive , but in my heart I think it very probable he is alive . 
He is bound upon my back to all eternity to all eternity ! says he , and , sitting down again , fell upon a stubborn silence . 
We must keep an eye upon him , or he will take us when we least expect . 
He will not show face here again , said I. Oh yes he will , said Mr. Henry . 
Wherever I am , there will he be . 
And again he looked all about him . 
You must not dwell upon this thought , Mr. Henry , said I. No , said he , that is a very good advice . 
We will never think of it , except when you have news . 
And we do not know yet , he added he may be dead . 
This was a discovery I kept to myself , fearing it might do him a prejudice with his wife . 
But I might have saved myself the trouble she had divined it for herself , and found the sentiment quite natural . 
This brings me to speak of the exception , my old lord . 
The amenity of his behaviour appeared more extreme full of excuses for the least trouble , very thoughtful for all to myself , of a most flattering civility . 
I believe you bear love enough to our house to render me this service . 
called for his wife and for an old servant whose very gravestone was now green with moss . 
His dissolution , though it took not very long , proceeded by infinitesimal gradations . 
On the last night of his life he suddenly broke silence with these words from Virgil Gnatique pratisque , alma , precor , miserere , perfectly uttered , and with a fitting accent . 
A little later he was had to bed with more difficulty than ever before and some time in the night , without any more violence , his spirit fled . 
At a far later period I chanced to speak of these particulars with a doctor of medicine , a man of so high a reputation that I scruple to adduce his name . 
some predisposition in the family to accidents of that description . 
The death of my old lord was the occasion of a fresh surprise to us who watched the behaviour of his successor . 
I could perceive , besides , that he found a solid gratification in his accession to the title the which he was punctilious in exacting . 
filled the cup of my poor master's happiness . 
There was nothing then left him to wish for nor yet leisure to wish for it . 
Indeed , there never was a parent so fond and doting as he showed himself . 
He was continually uneasy in his son's absence . 
Was the child abroad ? the father would be watching the clouds in case it rained . 
Was it night ? he would rise out of his bed to observe its slumbers . 
His conversation grew even wearyful to strangers , since he talked of little but his son . 
Every day this absorption of the man's nature became more observable , with many touching and some very blameworthy particulars . 
became familiar in the neighbourhood and for my part I found it more agreeable than the sound of birds . 
The mention of these rambles brings me to a strange scene of which I was a witness . 
There was one walk I never followed myself without emotion , so often had I gone there upon miserable errands , so much had there befallen against the house of Durrisdeer . 
It was that time of year when the woods are all in their spring colours , the thorns all in flower , and the birds in the high season of their singing . 
In contrast to this merriment , the shrubbery was only the more sad , and I the more oppressed by its associations . 
In this situation of spirit it struck me disagreeably to hear voices a little way in front , and to recognise the tones of my lord and Mr. Alexander . 
I pushed ahead , and came presently into their view . 
They stood together in the open space where the duel was , my lord with his hand on his son's shoulder , and speaking with some gravity . 
At least , as he raised his head upon my coming , I thought I could perceive his countenance to lighten . 
Ah ! says he , here comes the good Mackellar . 
I had thought it strange enough he should bring the child into that scene that he should actually be discoursing of his act , passed measure . 
But the worst was yet to come for he added , turning to his son You can ask Mackellar he was here and saw it . 
Is it true , Mr. Mackellar ? asked the child . 
And did you really see the devil ? I have not heard the tale , I replied and I am in a press of business . 
But so much is true , I cried , that I have met the devil in these woods , and seen him foiled here . 
My lord bowed his head gravely . 
Ah ! says he , Mackellar is always in the right . 
Come , Alexander , take your bonnet off . 
And with that he uncovered , and held out his hand . 
O Lord , said he , I thank Thee , and my son thanks Thee , for Thy manifold great mercies . 
Let us have peace for a little defend us from the evil man . 
I think you have forgot a word , my lord , said I. 'Forgive us our trespasses , as we forgive them that trespass against us . 
For Thine is the kingdom , and the power , and the glory , for ever and ever . 
Ah ! that is easy saying , said my lord . 
That is very easy saying , Mackellar . 
But for me to forgive ! I think I would cut a very silly figure if I had the affectation to pretend it . 
The bairn , my lord ! said I , with some severity , for I thought his expressions little fitted for the care of children . 
Why , very true , said he . 
This is dull work for a bairn . 
I forget if it was the same day , but it was soon after , my lord , finding me alone , opened himself a little more on the same head . 
Mackellar , he said , I am now a very happy man . 
I think so indeed , my lord , said I , and the sight of it gives me a light heart . 
There is an obligation in happiness do you not think so ? says he , musingly . 
I think so indeed , says I , and one in sorrow , too . 
If we are not here to try to do the best , in my humble opinion the sooner we are away the better for all parties . 
Ay , but if you were in my shoes , would you forgive him ? asks my lord . 
The suddenness of the attack a little gravelled me . 
It is a duty laid upon us strictly , said I. Hut ! said he . 
These are expressions ! Do you forgive the man yourself ? Well no ! said I. God forgive me , I do not . 
Shake hands upon that ! cries my lord , with a kind of joviality . 
It is an ill sentiment to shake hands upon , said I , for Christian people . 
I think I will give you mine on some more evangelical occasion . 
This I said , smiling a little but as for my lord , he went from the room laughing aloud . 
For my lord's slavery to the child , I can find no expression adequate . 
It was most notable in the matter of his wife . 
Since I had known Durrisdeer , she had been the burthen of his thought and the loadstone of his eyes and now she was quite cast out . 
I have seen him come to the door of a room , look round , and pass my lady over as though she were a dog before the fire . 
It would be Alexander he was seeking , and my lady knew it well . 
Without doubt this was in the nature of a judgment on my lady . 
An odd situation resulted that we had once more two parties in the house , and that now I was of my lady's . 
Not that ever I lost the love I bore my master . 
But , for one thing , he had the less use for my society . 
For another , I could not but compare the case of Mr. Alexander with that of Miss Katharine for whom my lord had never found the least attention . 
And for a third , I was wounded by the change he discovered to his wife , which struck me in the nature of an infidelity . 
I could not but admire , besides , the constancy and kindness she displayed . 
I do not think he did he was bound up so entirely in his son but the rest of us knew it , and in a manner suffered from the knowledge . 
What troubled us most , however , was the great and growing danger to the child . 
My lord was his father over again it was to be feared the son would prove a second Master . 
Time has proved these fears to have been quite exaggerate . 
Certainly there is no more worthy gentleman to day in Scotland than the seventh Lord Durrisdeer . 
Of my own exodus from his employment it does not become me to speak , above all in a memorandum written only to justify his father . 
Five pages of Mr. Mackellar's MS . 
I have gathered from their perusal an impression that Mr. Mackellar , in his old age , was rather an exacting servant . 
But our fear at the time was lest he should turn out , in the person of his son , a second edition of his brother . 
As for myself , I was haunted by the thought both day and night not so much for the child's sake as for the father's . 
The man had gone to sleep , he was dreaming a dream , and any rough wakening must infallibly prove mortal . 
That he should survive its death was inconceivable and the fear of its dishonour made me cover my face . 
It was this continual preoccupation that screwed me up at last to a remonstrance a matter worthy to be narrated in detail . 
I suppose it was the haggard face that put me suddenly upon my enterprise . 
But I called to mind that I was speaking for his good , and stuck to my colours . 
Has it never come in upon your mind what you are doing ? I asked . 
What I am doing ? he repeated I was never good at guessing riddles . 
But do you think he was a wise father ? There was a pause before he spoke , and then I say nothing against him , he replied . 
I had the most cause perhaps but I say nothing . 
Why , there it is , said I. You had the cause at least . 
And yet your father was a good man I never knew a better , save on the one point , nor yet a wiser . 
Where he stumbled , it is highly possible another man should fail . 
He had the two sons My lord rapped suddenly and violently on the table . 
What is this ? cried he . 
Speak out ! I will , then , said I , my voice almost strangled with the thumping of my heart . 
If you continue to indulge Mr. Alexander , you are following in your father's footsteps . 
your son should follow in the Master's . 
I never had the answer . 
When I lifted my head , my lord had risen to his feet , and the next moment he fell heavily on the floor . 
I got him to his feet , and he stood pretty well , though he kept hold of the table . 
I have been ill , Mackellar , he said again . 
Something broke , Mackellar or was going to break , and then all swam away . 
I think I was very angry . 
Never you mind , Mackellar never you mind , my man . 
I wouldnae hurt a hair upon your head . 
Too much has come and gone . 
It's a certain thing between us two . 
Presently the door flew open , and my lady swept in with flashing eyes . 
What is all this ? she cried . 
For a while they were my daily diet , and I swallowed them all . 
As for to day , you may call me what you please you will never find the name hard enough for such a blunder . 
And yet I meant it for the best . 
I told her all with ingenuity , even as it is written here and when she had heard me out , she pondered , and I could see her animosity fall . 
Yes , she said , you meant well indeed . 
I have had the same thought myself , or the same temptation rather , which makes me pardon you . 
But , dear God , can you not understand that he can bear no more ? He can bear no more ! she cried . 
The cord is stretched to snapping . 
What matters the future if he have one or two good days ? Amen , said I. I will meddle no more . 
I am pleased enough that you should recognise the kindness of my meaning . 
Yes , said my lady but when it came to the point , I have to suppose your courage failed you for what you said was said cruelly . 
She paused , looking at me then suddenly smiled a little , and said a singular thing Do you know what you are , Mr. Mackellar ? You are an old maid . 
No more incident of any note occurred in the family until the return of that ill starred man the Master . 
But I have to place here a second extract from the memoirs of Chevalier Burke , interesting in itself , and highly necessary for my purpose . 
It is our only sight of the Master on his Indian travels and the first word in these pages of Secundra Dass . 
ADVENTURE OF CHEVALIER BURKE IN INDIA . 
In short , I was for all the world like one of those calendars with whom Mr. Galland has made us acquainted in his elegant tales . 
I consulted him , therefore , with perfect freedom . 
I gave the cipaye a back , and we had soon dropped into a large enclosure full of trees . 
In the far end of the enclosure a bright light had suddenly shone out , and continued to burn steadily among the leaves . 
It was a circumstance highly unusual in such a place and hour and , in our situation , it behoved us to proceed with some timidity . 
Word had reached me that he was come to the Indies , though we had never met at least , and I heard little of his occupations . 
But , sure , I had no sooner recognised him , and found myself in the arms of so old a comrade , than I supposed my tribulations were quite done . 
I stepped plainly forth into the light of the moon , which shone exceeding strong , and hailing Ballantrae by name , made him in a few words master of my grievous situation . 
now rose to his feet . 
The Sahib , says he , understands no English language . 
I understand it myself , and I see you make some small mistake oh ! which may happen very often . 
But the Sahib would be glad to know how you come in a garden . 
Ballantrae ! I cried , have you the damned impudence to deny me to my face ? Ballantrae never moved a muscle , staring at me like an image in a pagoda . 
The Sahib understands no English language , says the native , as glib as before . 
He be glad to know how you come in a garden . 
Is that the way of it ? says I , and laying my hand on my sword hilt I bade the cipaye draw . 
Ballantrae's Hindu , still smiling , pulled out a pistol from his bosom , and though Ballantrae himself never moved a muscle I knew him well enough to be sure he was prepared . 
The Sahib thinks you better go away , says the Hindu . 
Tell the Sahib I consider him no gentleman , says I , and turned away with a gesture of contempt . 
I was not gone three steps when the voice of the Hindu called me back . 
The Sahib would be glad to know if you are a dam low Irishman , says he and at the words Ballantrae smiled and bowed very low . 
What is that ? says I. The Sahib say you ask your friend Mackellar , says the Hindu . 
The Sahib he cry quits . 
Tell the Sahib I will give him a cure for the Scots fiddle when next we meet , cried I. The pair were still smiling as I left . 
But there is one thing that can never be laid at the door of Francis Burke he never turned his back on a friend . 
THE ENEMY IN THE HOUSE . 
the day not indicated sometimes for a week or two together , and the whole fashion of the thing like that of a man near desperate . 
It was late in March at least , or early in April , . 
I had slept heavily , and wakened with a premonition of some evil to befall . 
As I came by the doors of the hall , another sound arrested me of voices talking . 
I drew nearer , and stood like a man dreaming . 
A little fear I had , but more curiosity and I opened the hall door , and entered . 
Close in the chimney sat two men . 
The one that was wrapped in a cloak and wore boots , I knew at once it was the bird of ill omen back again . 
He rose upon my entrance our eyes crossed and I know not why it should have been , but my courage rose like a lark on a May morning . 
Ha ! said I , is this you ? and I was pleased with the unconcern of my own voice . 
It is even myself , worthy Mackellar , says the Master . 
This time you have brought the black dog visibly upon your back , I continued . 
Referring to Secundra Dass ? asked the Master . 
He is a native gentleman of India . 
Hum ! said I. I am no great lover either of you or your friends , Mr. Bally . 
But I will let a little daylight in , and have a look at you . 
And so saying , I undid the shutters of the eastern window . 
By the light of the morning I could perceive the man was changed . 
Later , when we were all together , I was more struck to see how lightly time had dealt with him but the first glance was otherwise . 
You are getting an old man , said I. A shade came upon his face . 
If you could see yourself , said he , you would perhaps not dwell upon the topic . 
Hut ! I returned , old age is nothing to me . 
I think I have been always old and I am now , I thank God , better known and more respected . 
that my remarks annoyed him . 
He had no sooner met my looks than he stepped across the threshold . 
Mackellar , says he , we must see to breakfast for these travellers . 
It was plain the Master was a trifle disconcerted but he assumed the more impudence of speech and manner . 
I am as hungry as a hawk , says he . 
Let it be something good , Henry . 
My lord turned to him with the same hard smile . 
Lord Durrisdeer , says he . 
Oh ! never in the family , returned the Master . 
Every one in this house renders me my proper title , says my lord . 
Come quick , says he we have to sweep vermin from the house . 
John was , to all appearance , sound asleep , but my lord made no pretence of waking him . 
John Paul , said he , speaking as quietly as ever I heard him , you served my father long , or I would pack you from the house like a dog . 
If in half an hour's time I find you gone , you shall continue to receive your wages in Edinburgh . 
If you linger here or in St . 
Bride's old man , old servant , and altogether I shall find some very astonishing way to make you smart for your disloyalty . 
The door you let them in by will serve for your departure . 
I do not choose my son shall see your face again . 
I am rejoiced to find you bear the thing so quietly , said I , when we were forth again by ourselves . 
Quietly ! cries he , and put my hand suddenly against his heart , which struck upon his bosom like a sledge . 
At this revelation I was filled with wonder and fear . 
Aye , says he , do . 
I will hurry breakfast we must all appear at the table , even Alexander it must appear we are untroubled . 
I ran to my lady's room , and with no preparatory cruelty disclosed my news . 
My mind was long ago made up , said she . 
We must make our packets secretly to day , and leave secretly to night . 
Thank Heaven , we have another house ! The first ship that sails shall bear us to New York . 
And what of him ? I asked . 
We leave him Durrisdeer , she cried . 
Let him work his pleasure upon that . 
Not so , by your leave , said I. There shall be a dog at his heels that can hold fast . 
There will be good care taken trust him for that . 
Mr. Mackellar , she cried , I thank you for that thought . 
All shall be left in your hands . 
If we must go into a savage country , I bequeath it to you to take our vengeance . 
Bride's , to arrange privately for horses and to call the lawyer . 
My lord must leave procuration . 
At that moment my lord came to the door , and we opened our plan to him . 
I will never hear of it , he cried he would think I feared him . 
I will stay in my own house , please God , until I die . 
There lives not the man can beard me out of it . 
Once and for all , here I am , and here I stay in spite of all the devils in hell . 
My lady looked at me with an appeal that went to my heart and recalled me to my wits . 
Nothing will change me , he answered . 
God forbid I should refuse to hear you but nothing will change me . 
This he said firmly , with no signal of the former violence , which already raised my hopes . 
Very well , said I I can afford to waste my breath . 
I pointed to a chair , and he sat down and looked at me . 
Do you know how much ? I said . 
Mackellar ! cries my lord , getting to his feet . 
O my God , Mackellar ! It is neither the name of Mackellar nor the name of God that can change the truth , said I and I am telling you the fact . 
They are all clean vanished from your memory . 
And yet they stood by you at the darkest my lady not the least . 
It is your pride to stay and face him out , and she must stay along with you . 
I have not proved worthy of my happiness . 
My lady was waiting near at hand to learn the issue . 
When I brought her in , my lord took a hand of each of us , and laid them both upon his bosom . 
I have had two friends in my life , said he . 
All the comfort ever I had , it came from one or other . 
When you two are in a mind , I think I would be an ungrateful dog He shut his mouth very hard , and looked on us with swimming eyes . 
Do what ye like with me , says he , only don't think He stopped again . 
Do what ye please with me God knows I love and honour you . 
And dropping our two hands , he turned his back and went and gazed out of the window . 
But my lady ran after , calling his name , and threw herself upon his neck in a passion of weeping . 
I went out and shut the door behind me , and stood and thanked God from the bottom of my heart . 
At the breakfast board , according to my lord's design , we were all met . 
bowed almost to his knees , but the Master was for running forward like one of the family . 
My lady stopped him , curtseying low from the far end of the hall , and keeping her children at her back . 
My lord was a little in front so there were the three cousins of Durrisdeer face to face . 
My lady was quite transfigured into the matron , a becoming woman for the head of a great tableful of children and dependents . 
But the Master still bore himself erect , although perhaps with effort his brow barred about the centre with imperious lines , his mouth set as for command . 
He had all the gravity and something of the splendour of Satan in the Paradise Lost . 
I could not help but see the man with admiration , and was only surprised that I saw him with so little fear . 
it seemed as if his authority were quite vanished and his teeth all drawn . 
We had known him a magician that controlled the elements and here he was , transformed into an ordinary gentleman , chatting like his neighbours at the breakfast board . 
But my poor man's leaping heart came in my mind , and I remembered it was for his life we played the coward . 
, asked me what was to be done with him . 
Why , Mr. Bally , said I , the house will still be open to you for a time . 
For a time ? says he . 
I do not know if I quite take your meaning . 
You are become an impudent rogue , said the Master , bending his brows at me dangerously . 
I learned in a good school , I returned . 
And you must have perceived yourself that with my old lord's death your power is quite departed . 
I do not fear you now , Mr. Bally I think even God forgive me that I take a certain pleasure in your company . 
He broke out in a burst of laughter , which I clearly saw to be assumed . 
I have come with empty pockets , says he , after a pause . 
I do not think there will be any money going , I replied . 
I would advise you not to build on that . 
I shall have something to say on the point , he returned . 
Indeed ? said I. I have not a guess what it will be , then . 
Oh ! you affect confidence , said the Master . 
I have still one strong position that you people fear a scandal , and I enjoy it . 
Pardon me , Mr. Bally , says I. We do not in the least fear a scandal against you . 
You have been studying repartee , he said . 
But speech is very easy , and sometimes very deceptive . 
I warn you fairly you will find me vitriol in the house . 
You would do wiser to pay money down and see my back . 
And with that he waved his hand to me and left the room . 
A little after , my lord came with the lawyer , Mr. Carlyle a bottle of old wine was brought , and we all had a glass before we fell to business . 
The necessary deeds were then prepared and executed , and the Scotch estates made over in trust to Mr. Carlyle and myself . 
There is one point , Mr. Carlyle , said my lord , when these affairs had been adjusted , on which I wish that you would do us justice . 
This sudden departure coinciding with my brother's return will be certainly commented on . 
I wish you would discourage any conjunction of the two . 
I will make a point of it , my lord , said Mr. Carlyle . 
The Mas Bally does not , then , accompany you ? It is a point I must approach , said my lord . 
Mr. Bally remains at Durrisdeer , under the care of Mr. Mackellar and I do not mean that he shall even know our destination . 
Common report , however began the lawyer . 
Ah ! but , Mr. Carlyle , this is to be a secret quite among ourselves , interrupted my lord . 
None but you and Mackellar are to be made acquainted with my movements . 
And Mr. Bally stays here ? Quite so , said Mr. Carlyle . 
The powers you leave Then he broke off again . 
Mr. Mackellar , we have a rather heavy weight upon us . 
No doubt , said I. No doubt , said he . 
Mr. Bally will have no voice ? He will have no voice , said my lord and , I hope , no influence . 
Mr. Bally is not a good adviser . 
I see , said the lawyer . 
By the way , has Mr. Bally means ? I understand him to have nothing , replied my lord . 
I give him table , fire , and candle in this house . 
On the question of an allowance ? There will be no allowance , said my lord . 
I wish Mr. Bally to live very private . 
We have not always been gratified with his behaviour . 
And in the matter of money , I added , he has shown himself an infamous bad husband . 
Glance your eye upon that docket , Mr. Carlyle , where I have brought together the different sums the man has drawn from the estate in the last fifteen or twenty years . 
Mr. Carlyle made the motion of whistling . 
I had no guess of this , said he . 
Excuse me once more , my lord , if I appear to push you but it is really desirable I should penetrate your intentions . 
Mr. Mackellar might die , when I should find myself alone upon this trust . 
Would it not be rather your lordship's preference that Mr. Bally should ahem should leave the country ? My lord looked at Mr. Carlyle . 
Why do you ask that ? said he . 
I gather , my lord , that Mr. Bally is not a comfort to his family , says the lawyer with a smile . 
My lord's face became suddenly knotted . 
I wish he was in hell ! cried he , and filled himself a glass of wine , but with a hand so tottering that he spilled the half into his bosom . 
This was the second time that , in the midst of the most regular and wise behaviour , his animosity had spirted out . 
Except for this explosion the interview was very successfully conducted . 
No doubt Mr. Carlyle would talk , as lawyers do , little by little . 
We could thus feel we had laid the foundations of a better feeling in the country , and the man's own misconduct would certainly complete what we had begun . 
Indeed , before his departure , the lawyer showed us there had already gone abroad some glimmerings of the truth . 
Something of this nature oozed out when he was last in Durrisdeer . 
There was some talk of a woman at St . 
Bride's , to whom you had behaved extremely handsome , and Mr. Bally with no small degree of cruelty . 
There was the entail , again , which was much controverted . 
In short , there was no want of talk , back and forward and some of our wise acres took up a strong opinion . 
I remained in suspense , as became one of my cloth but Mr. Mackellar's docket here has finally opened my eyes . 
I do not think , Mr. Mackellar , that you and I will give him that much rope . 
The rest of that important day passed prosperously through . 
It was our policy to keep the enemy in view , and I took my turn to be his watchman with the rest . 
I think his spirits rose as he perceived us to be so attentive , and I know that mine insensibly declined . 
What chiefly daunted me was the man's singular dexterity to worm himself into our troubles . 
I seemed to have said nothing , and yet to have let all out . 
Before I knew where I was the man was condoling with me on my lord's neglect of my lady and myself , and his hurtful indulgence to his son . 
On this last point I perceived him to return repeatedly . 
the ancient cities of the Indies . 
How cunningly these baits might be employed , and what an empire might be so founded , little by little , in the mind of any boy , stood obviously clear to me . 
Mr. Alexander there was the weak point , there was the Eve in our perishable paradise and the serpent was already hissing on the trail . 
I promise you , I went the more heartily about the preparations my last scruple gone , the danger of delay written before me in huge characters . 
From that moment forth I seem not to have sat down or breathed . 
Supper went creditably off , cold salutations passed and the company trooped to their respective chambers . 
I attended the Master to the last . 
We had put him next door to his Indian , in the north wing because that was the most distant and could be severed from the body of the house with doors . 
At length the Master observed my signals of distress . 
I perceive , says he , that you have all your ancient habits early to bed and early to rise . 
We slipped out of the side postern into a night of darkness , scarce broken by a star or two so that at first we groped and stumbled and fell among the bushes . 
There was one thing more to wait for , and that was the reappearance of the coach upon Cartmore . 
It seems they must have pulled up upon the summit , looked back for a last time , and seen our lantern not yet moved away from the place of separation . 
For a lamp was taken from a carriage , and waved three times up and down by way of a farewell . 
And then they were gone indeed , having looked their last on the kind roof of Durrisdeer , their faces toward a barbarous country . 
The sense of isolation burned in my bowels like a fire . 
The remainder of that night I paced to and fro on the smooth highway , reflecting on the future and the past . 
My thoughts , which at first dwelled tenderly on those who were just gone , took a more manly temper as I considered what remained for me to do . 
At the customary hour I had the Master called , and awaited his coming in the hall with a quiet mind . 
He looked about him at the empty room and the three covers set . 
We are a small party , said he . 
How comes ? This is the party to which we must grow accustomed , I replied . 
He looked at me with a sudden sharpness . 
What is all this ? said he . 
You and I and your friend Mr. Dass are now all the company , I replied . 
My lord , my lady , and the children , are gone upon a voyage . 
Upon my word ! said he . 
Can this be possible ? I have indeed fluttered your Volscians in Corioli ! But this is no reason why our breakfast should go cold . 
I could see he was more affected than his language carried , and I determined to equal him in coolness . 
For a while he played the part of entertainer , giving directions to Macconochie , who received them with an evil grace , and attending specially upon Secundra . 
And where has my good family withdrawn to ? he asked carelessly . 
Ah ! Mr. Bally , that is another point , said I. I have no orders to communicate their destination . 
To me , he corrected . 
To any one , said I. It is the less pointed , said the master C'EST DE BON TON my brother improves as he continues . 
You have only to keep well with me , which is no very difficult matter , and you shall want neither for wine nor a saddle horse . 
He made an excuse to send Macconochie from the room . 
And for money ? he inquired . 
Have I to keep well with my good friend Mackellar for my pocket money also ? This is a pleasing return to the principles of boyhood . 
There was no allowance made , said I but I will take it on myself to see you are supplied in moderation . 
In moderation ? he repeated . 
And you will take it on yourself ? He drew himself up , and looked about the hall at the dark rows of portraits . 
You told me yesterday my power was fallen with my father's death . 
I sought to interrupt him with some not very truthful denegation but he waved me down , and pursued his speech . 
I say , it smacks of it , he said but I will go beyond that , for I think the apprehension grounded . 
I came to this house with some reluctancy . 
In view of the manner of my last departure , nothing but necessity could have induced me to return . 
Money , however , is that which I must have . 
You will not give with a good grace well , I have the power to force it from you . 
Inside of a week , without leaving Durrisdeer , I will find out where these fools are fled to . 
I will follow and when I have run my quarry down , I will drive a wedge into that family that shall once more burst it into shivers . 
will choose to buy my absence and you will all see whether , by that time , I decide for profit or revenge . 
I was amazed to hear the man so open . 
The truth is , he was consumed with anger at my lord's successful flight , felt himself to figure as a dupe , and was in no humour to weigh language . 
Do you consider THIS entirely wise ? said I , copying his words . 
These twenty years I have lived by my poor wisdom , he answered with a smile that seemed almost foolish in its vanity . 
And come out a beggar in the end , said I , if beggar be a strong enough word for it . 
Throughout this dialogue I had been incommoded by the observation of Secundra Dass . 
At first he was somewhat changeable in his behaviour now civil , now returning to his old manner of flouting me to my face and in both I met him half way . 
Thanks be to Providence , I had now no measure to keep with the man and I was never afraid of black brows , only of naked swords . 
So that I found a certain entertainment in these bouts of incivility , and was not always ill inspired in my rejoinders . 
I had a droll expression that entirely vanquished him . 
And , indeed , I never had the least pretension to be thought a wit . 
From that hour he was never rude with me , but all passed between us in a manner of pleasantry . 
was when he required a horse , another bottle , or some money . 
He would approach me then after the manner of a schoolboy , and I would carry it on by way of being his father on both sides , with an infinity of mirth . 
I could not but perceive that he thought more of me , which tickled that poor part of mankind , the vanity . 
, into a manner that was not only familiar , but even friendly and this , on the part of one who had so long detested me , I found the more insidious . 
He went little abroad sometimes even refusing invitations . 
And , indeed , meal time at Durrisdeer must have been a delight to any one , by reason of the brilliancy of the discourse . 
He would often express wonder at his former indifference to my society . 
But , you see , he would add , we were upon opposite sides . 
And so we are to day but let us never speak of that . 
I would think much less of you if you were not staunch to your employer . 
tardy justice is done to a man's character and parts . 
But I have no thought to excuse myself . 
I was to blame I let him cajole me , and , in short , I think the watch dog was going sound asleep , when he was suddenly aroused . 
I should say the Indian was continually travelling to and fro in the house . 
to mock you with one of his grovelling obeisances . 
And yet without doubt the creature was still eavesdropping and without doubt it was through his stealth and my security that our secret reached the Master . 
It was one very wild night , after supper , and when we had been making more than usually merry , that the blow fell on me . 
This is all very fine , says the Master , but we should do better to be buckling our valise . 
Why so ? I cried . 
Are you leaving ? We are all leaving to morrow in the morning , said he . 
For the port of Glascow first , thence for the province of New York . 
I suppose I must have groaned aloud . 
Yes , he continued , I boasted I said a week , and it has taken me near twenty days . 
But never mind I shall make it up I will go the faster . 
Have you the money for this voyage ? I asked . 
Dear and ingenuous personage , I have , said he . 
I go with you , said I. I count upon it , said the Master . 
You have seen me foiled I mean you shall see me victorious . 
To gain that I will risk wetting you like a sop in this wild weather . 
And at least , I added , you know very well you could not throw me off . 
Not easily , said he . 
You put your finger on the point with your usual excellent good sense . 
I never fight with the inevitable . 
I suppose it is useless to appeal to you ? said I. Believe me , perfectly , said he . 
And yet , if you would give me time , I could write I began . 
And what would be my Lord Durrisdeer's answer ? asks he . 
Aye , said I , that is the rub . 
And , at any rate , how much more expeditions that I should go myself ! says he . 
But all this is quite a waste of breath . 
At seven to morrow the chaise will be at the door . 
Can you spare me quarter of an hour at St . 
Bride's ? said I. I have a little necessary business with Carlyle . 
An hour , if you prefer , said he . 
I do not seek to deny that the money for your seat is an object to me and you could always get the first to Glascow with saddle horses . 
Well , said I , I never thought to leave old Scotland . 
It will brisken you up , says he . 
This will be an ill journey for some one , I said . 
I think , sir , for you . 
Something speaks in my bosom and so much it says plain that this is an ill omened journey . 
If you take to prophecy , says he , listen to that . 
There came up a violent squall off the open Solway , and the rain was dashed on the great windows . 
Do ye ken what that bodes , warlock ? said he , in a broad accent that there'll be a man Mackellar unco' sick at sea . 
When I got to my chamber , I sat there under a painful excitation , hearkening to the turmoil of the gale , which struck full upon that gable of the house . 
What with the pressure on my spirits , the eldritch cries of the wind among the turret tops , and the perpetual trepidation of the masoned house , sleep fled my eyelids utterly . 
MACKELLAR'S JOURNEY WITH THE MASTER . 
The chaise came to the door in a strong drenching mist . 
We took our leave in silence the house of Durrisdeer standing with dropping gutters and windows closed , like a place dedicate to melancholy . 
One verse began Home was home then , my dear , full of kindly faces , Home was home then , my dear , happy for the child . 
And ended somewhat thus Now , when day dawns on the brow of the moorland , Lone stands the house , and the chimney stone is cold . 
Lone let it stand , now the folks are all departed , The kind hearts , the true hearts , that loved the place of old . 
to me by a master singer at a time so fitting . 
He looked in my face when he had done , and saw that my eyes watered . 
No , not all , says he not all . 
You are there in error . 
The malady of not wanting , my evangelist . 
But methought he sighed as he mounted again into the chaise . 
All day long we journeyed in the same miserable weather the mist besetting us closely , the heavens incessantly weeping on my head . 
The road lay over moorish hills , where was no sound but the crying of moor fowl in the wet heather and the pouring of the swollen burns . 
Sometimes I would doze off in slumber , when I would find myself plunged at once in some foul and ominous nightmare , from the which I would awake strangling . 
Sometimes , at a longer ascent , the Master would set foot to ground and walk by my side , mostly without speech . 
One , I remember , stood before me with the colours of a true illusion . 
a heaven sent warning of the future , for all manner of calamities befell , not that calamity and I saw many pitiful sights , but never that one . 
It was decided we should travel on all night and it was singular , once the dusk had fallen , my spirits somewhat rose . 
At least , I spent some waking hours , not without satisfaction in my thoughts , although wet and weary in my body and fell at last into a natural slumber without dreams . 
Yet I must have been at work even in the deepest of my sleep and at work with at least a measure of intelligence . 
we found a ship in the very article of sailing . 
We took our places in the cabin and , two days after , carried our effects on board . 
Her name was the NONESUCH , a very ancient ship and very happily named . 
THE NONESUCH carried a fair wind out of the Clyde , and for near upon a week we enjoyed bright weather and a sense of progress . 
a born seaman , in so far at least as I was never sick yet I was far from tasting the usual serenity of my health . 
sprang from my environment and if the ship were not to blame , then it was the Master . 
being always and even to this day extremely neglected . 
After the first week out we fell in with foul winds and heavy weather . 
The NONESUCH , being an old fashioned ship and badly loaden , rolled beyond belief so that the skipper trembled for his masts , and I for my life . 
We made no progress on our course . 
An unbearable ill humour settled on the ship men , mates , and master , girding at one another all day long . 
A saucy word on the one hand , and a blow on the other , made a daily incident . 
In the midst of our evil season sprang up a hurricane of wind so that all supposed she must go down . 
I was shut in the cabin from noon of one day till sundown of the next the Master was somewhere lashed on deck . 
Secundra had eaten of some drug and lay insensible so you may say I passed these hours in an unbroken solitude . 
At first I was terrified beyond motion , and almost beyond thought , my mind appearing to be frozen . 
Presently there stole in on me a ray of comfort . 
At first , I have said , it was but a ray of comfort but it had soon grown to be broad sunshine . 
The thought of the man's death , of his deletion from this world , which he embittered for so many , took possession of my mind . 
I hugged it , I found it sweet in my belly . 
As I hope for mercy , I was singly disappointed . 
In the selfishness of that vile , absorbing passion of hatred , I forgot the case of our innocent shipmates , and thought but of myself and my enemy . 
O God ! I cried , I would be liker a man if I rose and struck this creature down but Thou madest me a coward from my mother's womb . 
O Lord , Thou madest me so , Thou knowest my weakness , Thou knowest that any face of death will set me shaking in my shoes . 
But , lo ! here is Thy servant ready , his mortal weakness laid aside . 
I stumbled to my feet ashamed , and was seized with surprise to find myself totter and ache like one that had been stretched upon the rack . 
It's you that saved the ship , Mr. Mackellar , says he . 
I know now that he must have overheard and comprehended the peculiar nature of my prayers . 
approving smiles with which the Master honoured me . 
The wind fell , but the sea hove ever the higher . 
All night the NONESUCH rolled outrageously the next day dawned , and the next , and brought no change . 
One of these days the Master and I sate alone together at the break of the poop . 
I should say the NONESUCH carried a high , raised poop . 
it might be the most needful . 
I looked on upon this with a growing fascination , as birds are said to look on snakes . 
He must tell me a tale , and show me at the same time how clever he was and how wicked . 
It was a thing he did always with affectation and display generally with a good effect . 
My friend the count , it was thus that he began his story , had for an enemy a certain German baron , a stranger in Rome . 
Indeed , that is the first principle of vengeance and hatred betrayed is hatred impotent . 
It chanced he was one day riding in the outer suburbs , when he came to a disused by road branching off into the moor which lies about Rome . 
On the one hand was an ancient Roman tomb on the other a deserted house in a garden of evergreen trees . 
The place was desert and very secret a voice spoke in the count's bosom that there was something here to his advantage . 
He tied his horse to the pine tree , took his flint and steel in his hand to make a light , and entered into the hill . 
The doorway opened on a passage of old Roman masonry , which shortly after branched in two . 
Sounding forward with his foot , he found an edge of polished stone , and then vacancy . 
All his curiosity was now awakened , and , getting some rotten sticks that lay about the floor , he made a fire . 
In front of him was a profound well doubtless some neighbouring peasant had once used it for his water , and it was he that had set up the fence . 
A long while the count stood leaning on the rail and looking down into the pit . 
'Now , the count was thinking , 'a strong impulsion brought me to this place . 
Leaping back to save himself , he trod out the last flicker of his fire , which gave him thenceforward no more light , only an incommoding smoke . 
'Was I sent here to my death ? says he , and shook from head to foot . 
And then a thought flashed in his mind . 
He crept forth on hands and knees to the brink of the pit , and felt above him in the air . 
The rail had been fast to a pair of uprights it had only broken from the one , and still depended from the other . 
The count set it back again as he had found it , so that the place meant death to the first comer , and groped out of the catacomb like a sick man . 
The next day , riding in the Corso with the baron , he purposely betrayed a strong preoccupation . 
inquired into the cause and he , after some fencing , admitted that his spirits had been dashed by an unusual dream . 
This was calculated to draw on the baron a superstitious man , who affected the scorn of superstition . 
Some rallying followed , and then the count , as if suddenly carried away , called on his friend to beware , for it was of him that he had dreamed . 
You know enough of human nature , my excellent Mackellar , to be certain of one thing I mean that the baron did not rest till he had heard the dream . 
The count , sure that he would never desist , kept him in play till his curiosity was highly inflamed , and then suffered himself , with seeming reluctance , to be overborne . 
'I warn you , says he , 'evil will come of it something tells me so . 
Methought I cried and cried upon you to come back in a very agony of terror whether you heard me I know not , but you went doggedly on . 
The road brought you to a desert place among ruins , where was a door in a hillside , and hard by the door a misbegotten pine . 
, tied your horse to the pine tree , and entered resolutely in by the door . 
Within , it was dark but in my dream I could still see you , and still besought you to hold back . 
You felt your way along the right hand wall , took a branching passage to the right , and came to a little chamber , where was a well with a railing . 
To all my outcry you rendered not the least attention , leaning the while upon the rail and looking down intently in the water . 
And now , continues the count , 'I thank you from my heart for your insistency . 
This dream lay on me like a load and now I have told it in plain words and in the broad daylight , it seems no great matter . 
'I do not know , says the baron . 
'It is in some points strange . 
A communication , did you say ? Oh ! it is an odd dream . 
It will make a story to amuse our friends . 
'I am not so sure , says the count . 
'I am sensible of some reluctancy . 
Let us rather forget it . 
'By all means , says the baron . 
the dream was not again referred to . 
On the way back to Rome , the count led them insensibly by a particular route . 
Presently he reined in his horse , clapped his hand before his eyes , and cried out aloud . 
, and stared upon the baron . 
'What ails you ? cries the baron . 
'What is wrong with you ? 'Nothing , cries the count . 
A seizure , I know not what . 
Let us hurry back to Rome . 
'Yes , says he , with a changed voice . 
'Let us by all means hurry back to Rome . 
I fear you are not well in health . 
'Oh , for God's sake ! cries the count , shuddering , 'back to Rome and let me get to bed . 
The next day the baron's horse was found tied to the pine , but himself was never heard of from that hour . 
And , now , was that a murder ? says the Master , breaking sharply off . 
Are you sure he was a count ? I asked . 
I continued to follow his evolutions with a childish fixity they made me giddy and vacant , and I spoke as in a dream . 
He hated the baron with a great hatred ? I asked . 
His belly moved when the man came near him , said the Master . 
I have felt that same , said I. Verily ! cries the Master . 
The words of my own prayer I WERE LIKER A MAN IF I STRUCK THIS CREATURE DOWN shot at the same time into my memory . 
thrust at him swiftly with my foot . 
It was written I should have the guilt of this attempt without the profit . 
Whether from my own uncertainty or his incredible quickness , he escaped the thrust , leaping to his feet and catching hold at the same moment of a stay . 
I do not know how long a time passed by . 
Mackellar , said he , I make no reproaches , but I offer you a bargain . 
With that he made off up the sliding deck like a squirrel , and plunged into the cabin . 
About half an hour later he returned I still lying as he had left me . 
You have the right to make conditions , I replied , and we shook hands . 
He sat down at once in the same place and the old perilous attitude . 
Hold on ! cried I , covering my eyes . 
I cannot bear to see you in that posture . 
The least irregularity of the sea might plunge you overboard . 
You are highly inconsistent , he replied , smiling , but doing as I asked . 
For all that , Mackellar , I would have you to know you have risen forty feet in my esteem . 
Well , you may think it odd , but I like you the better for this afternoon's performance . 
I suppose , said I , I should ask your pardon and God's for my attempt . 
At any rate , I have passed my word , which I will keep faithfully . 
But when I think of those you persecute I paused . 
Life is a singular thing , said he , and mankind a very singular people . 
You suppose yourself to love my brother . 
I assure you , it is merely custom . 
Interrogate your memory and when first you came to Durrisdeer , you will find you considered him a dull , ordinary youth . 
He is as dull and ordinary now , though not so young . 
Had you instead fallen in with me , you would to day be as strong upon my side . 
I would never say you were ordinary , Mr. Bally , I returned but here you prove yourself dull . 
You have just shown your reliance on my word . 
In other terms , that is my conscience the same which starts instinctively back from you , like the eye from a strong light . 
Ah ! says he , but I mean otherwise . 
I mean , had I met you in my youth . 
should I have ever been so . 
Hut , Mr. Bally , says I , you would have made a mock of me you would never have spent ten civil words on such a Square toes . 
But he was now fairly started on his new course of justification , with which he wearied me throughout the remainder of the passage . 
No doubt in the past he had taken pleasure to paint himself unnecessarily black , and made a vaunt of his wickedness , bearing it for a coat of arms . 
Nor was he so illogical as to abate one item of his old confessions . 
But now that I know you are a human being , he would say , I can take the trouble to explain myself . 
For I assure you I am human , too , and have my virtues , like my neighbours . 
Thereupon he would shake his head at me . 
Ah ! Mackellar , you might live a thousand years and never understand my nature , he would say . 
This battle is now committed , the hour of reflection quite past , the hour for mercy not yet come . 
A fig for your honour ! I would say . 
And by your leave , these warlike similitudes are something too high sounding for the matter in hand . 
he would smile , and sigh like a man misunderstood . 
Once , I remember , he defended himself more at large , and had some curious sophistries , worth repeating , for a light upon his character . 
You are very like a civilian to think war consists in drums and banners , said he . 
When we take our advantage unrelentingly , then we make war . 
But you weary me with claiming my respect . 
Your brother is a good man , and you are a bad one neither more nor less . 
Had I been Alexander he began . 
It is so we all dupe ourselves , I cried . 
Paul , it would have been all one I would have made the same hash of that career that you now see me making of my own . 
A bad man , am I ? Ah ! but I was born for a good tyrant ! Ask Secundra Dass he will tell you I treat him like a son . 
I must have all or none . 
But where all is given , I give it back with usury . 
I have a kingly nature there is my loss ! It has been hitherto rather the loss of others , I remarked , which seems a little on the hither side of royalty . 
Tilly vally ! cried he . 
I would do it to morrow ! says he . 
Only only Only what ? I asked . 
Only they must beg it on their bended knees . 
I think in public , too , he added , smiling . 
Indeed , Mackellar , I doubt if there be a hall big enough to serve my purpose for that act of reparation . 
Vanity , vanity ! I moralised . 
You said the other day that I relied on your conscience were I in your humour of detraction , I might say I built upon your vanity . 
It is your pretension to be UN HOMME DE PAROLE 'tis mine not to accept defeat . 
It will be gathered from so much familiar talk , and so much patience on both sides , that we now lived together upon excellent terms . 
Such was again the fact , and this time more seriously than before . 
Apart from disputations such as that which I have tried to reproduce , not only consideration reigned , but , I am tempted to say , even kindness . 
, he sat by my berth to entertain me with his conversation , and treated me with excellent remedies , which I accepted with security . 
Himself commented on the circumstance . 
You see , says he , you begin to know me better . 
A very little while ago , upon this lonely ship , where no one but myself has any smattering of science , you would have made sure I had designs upon your life . 
And , observe , it is since I found you had designs upon my own , that I have shown you most respect . 
You will tell me if this speaks of a small mind . 
I found little to reply . 
that he regarded me with genuine kindness . 
Singular and sad fact ! so soon as this change began , my animosity abated , and these haunting visions of my master passed utterly away . 
I stood on the poop , regarding the green shores near at hand , and now and then the light smoke of the little town , our destination . 
And as I was even then devising how to steal a march on my familiar enemy , I was conscious of a shade of embarrassment when he approached me with his hand extended . 
I am now to bid you farewell , said he , and that for ever . 
For now you go among my enemies , where all your former prejudices will revive . 
The voyage has not lasted long enough , or I should have wrote the impression deeper . 
But now all is at an end , and we are again at war . 
Judge by this little interlude how dangerous I am and tell those fools pointing with his finger to the town to think twice and thrice before they set me at defiance . 
CHAPTER X. PASSAGES AT NEW YORK . 
It was here my lord was walking when I arrived indeed , it had become his chief place of frequentation , and his mind was now filled with farming . 
I burst in upon him breathless , and gave him my news which was indeed no news at all , several ships having outsailed the NONESUCH in the interval . 
We have been expecting you long , said my lord and indeed , of late days , ceased to expect you any more . 
I am glad to take your hand again , Mackellar . 
I thought you had been at the bottom of the sea . 
Ah ! my lord , would God I had ! cried I. Things would have been better for yourself . 
Not in the least , says he , grimly . 
I could not ask better . 
There is a long score to pay , and now at last I can begin to pay it . 
I cried out against his security . 
Oh ! says he , this is not Durrisdeer , and I have taken my precautions . 
His reputation awaits him I have prepared a welcome for my brother . 
I should lose my pleasure else , says my lord , rubbing his palms . 
Presently he bethought himself , and set men off running , with billets , to summon the magnates of the province . 
My lady , who was seated in the verandah , rose with a very pinched expression and carried her children into the house . 
The Master , well dressed and with an elegant walking sword , bowed to the company in a handsome manner and nodded to my lord with familiarity . 
My lord did not accept the salutation , but looked upon his brother with bended brows . 
your reputation has preceded you ? Your lordship is pleased to be civil , said the Master , with a fine start . 
I am pleased to be very plain , returned my lord because it is needful you should clearly understand your situation . 
You have already ruined me almost to the door , as you ruined my father before me whose heart you also broke . 
Your crimes escape the law but my friend the Governor has promised protection to my family . 
Ah ! says the Master , very slowly . 
And so this is the advantage of a foreign land ! These gentlemen are unacquainted with our story , I perceive . 
I am the steward of the estate , and there is not one word of truth in it . 
The man is a forfeited rebel turned into a hired spy there is his story in two words . 
It was thus that I let slip his infamy . 
Fellow , said the Governor , turning his face sternly on the Master , I know more of you than you think for . 
We have some broken ends of your adventures in the provinces , which you will do very well not to drive me to investigate . 
Believe me , if I let these matters lie , it is in commiseration for your family and out of respect for my valued friend , Lord Durrisdeer . 
There was a murmur of applause from the provincials . 
I should have remembered how a title would shine out in such a hole as this , says the Master , white as a sheet no matter how unjustly come by . 
It remains for me , then , to die at my lord's door , where my dead body will form a very cheerful ornament . 
Away with your affectations ! cries my lord . 
You know very well I have no such meaning only to protect myself from calumny , and my home from your intrusion . 
I offer you a choice . 
The condition is that you speak with no member of my family except myself , he added . 
I do not think I have ever seen any man so pale as was the Master but he was erect and his mouth firm . 
I have been met here with some very unmerited insults , said he , from which I have certainly no idea to take refuge by flight . 
Give me your pittance I take it without shame , for it is mine already like the shirt upon your back and I choose to stay until these gentlemen shall understand me better . 
Already they must spy the cloven hoof , since with all your pretended eagerness for the family honour , you take a pleasure to degrade it in my person . 
This is all very fine , says my lord but to us who know you of old , you must be sure it signifies nothing . 
You take that alternative out of which you think that you can make the most . 
Take it , if you can , in silence it will serve you better in the long run , you may believe me , than this ostentation of ingratitude . 
Oh , gratitude , my lord ! cries the Master , with a mounting intonation and his forefinger very conspicuously lifted up . 
Be at rest it will not fail you . 
It now remains that I should salute these gentlemen whom we have wearied with our family affairs . 
We were now to enter on a changed phase of this family division . 
That this was done , I have no doubt . 
But unfortunately for himself and all of us , he took counsel of his anger . 
He chose , in a poor quarter of the town , a lonely , small house of boards , overhung with some acacias . 
A placard was hung above the hutch , bearing these words in something of the following disposition JAMES DURIE , FORMERLY MASTER OF BALLANTRAE . 
SECUNDRA DASS , DECAYED GENTLEMAN OF INDIA . 
Underneath this , when he had a job , my gentleman sat withinside tailor wise and busily stitching . 
I say , when he had a job but such customers as came were rather for Secundra , and the Master's sewing would be more in the manner of Penelope's . 
And in so far his device succeeded that there was murmuring in the town and a party formed highly inimical to my lord . 
In the meanwhile my lord dwelled in his decent mansion , immersed in farming a popular man with his intimates , and careless or unconscious of the rest . 
She had looked on from a window upon the Master's humiliation and from that hour appeared to feel at ease . 
I was not so sure myself as time went on , there seemed to me a something not quite wholesome in my lord's condition . 
that he kept a mistress somewhere in the town . 
Accordingly I made a pretext , had the hour changed at which I taught Mr. Alexander the foundation of cyphering and the mathematic , and set myself instead to dog my master's footsteps . 
At the first his way was among pleasant trees and beside a graveyard , where he would sit awhile , if the day were fine , in meditation . 
Presently the path turned down to the waterside , and came back along the harbour front and past the Master's booth . 
It was the hour when the Master sate within upon his board and plied his needle . 
So these two brothers would gaze upon each other with hard faces and then my lord move on again , smiling to himself . 
It was but twice that I must stoop to that ungrateful necessity of playing spy . 
I was then certain of my lord's purpose in his rambles and of the secret source of his delight . 
Here was his mistress it was hatred and not love that gave him healthful colours . 
Some moralists might have been relieved by the discovery I confess that I was dismayed . 
Coming down one day a little late , after I had been near a week prevented , I was struck with surprise to find a new development . 
Not three feet from him sate the Master , stitching . 
did my lord so much as cut a glance upon his enemy . 
He tasted his neighbourhood , I must suppose , less indirectly in the bare proximity of person and , without doubt , drank deep of hateful pleasures . 
He had no sooner come away than I openly joined him . 
My lord , my lord , said I , this is no manner of behaviour . 
I grow fat upon it , he replied and not merely the words , which were strange enough , but the whole character of his expression , shocked me . 
You cannot understand , said he . 
You had never such mountains of bitterness upon your heart . 
And if it were no more , I added , you will surely goad the man to some extremity . 
To the contrary I am breaking his spirit , says my lord . 
Every morning for hard upon a week my lord took his same place upon the bench . 
of marines singing at their employ . 
And even this the Master accepted with a steady countenance what was in his mind , God knows , or perhaps Satan only . 
Henry , said he , I have for once made a false step , and for once you have had the wit to profit by it . 
that you have had the best of it . 
Blood will out and you have certainly a choice idea of how to make yourself unpleasant . 
Never a word said my lord it was just as though the Master had not broken silence . 
Come , resumed the Master , do not be sulky it will spoil your attitude . 
to be a little gracious for I have not merely a defeat to accept . 
I had meant to continue this performance till I had gathered enough money for a certain purpose I confess ingenuously , I have not the courage . 
You naturally desire my absence from this town I have come round by another way to the same idea . 
And I have a proposition to make or , if your lordship prefers , a favour to ask . 
Ask it , says my lord . 
To the recovery of this , has my ambition now come down and , as it is my own , you will not grudge it me . 
Go and get it , says my lord . 
Yes , said the Master but to do so , I must find men and carriage . 
The way is long and rough , and the country infested with wild Indians . 
And then , if you so decide , you may have seen the last of me . 
My lord stared him steadily in the eyes there was a hard smile upon his face , but he uttered nothing . 
Henry , said the Master , with a formidable quietness , and drawing at the same time somewhat back Henry , I had the honour to address you . 
I hesitated awhile between the two brothers , so serious a climax did we seem to have reached . 
But the Master had resumed his occupation , his eyes lowered , his hand seemingly as deft as ever and I decided to pursue my lord . 
Are you mad ? I cried , so soon as I had overtook him . 
Would you cast away so fair an opportunity ? Is it possible you should still believe in him ? inquired my lord , almost with a sneer . 
I wish him forth of this town ! I cried . 
I wish him anywhere and anyhow but as he is . 
I have said my say , returned my lord , and you have said yours . 
But I was bent on dislodging the Master . 
That sight of him patiently returning to his needlework was more than my imagination could digest . 
There was never a man made , and the Master the least of any , that could accept so long a series of insults . 
The air smelt blood to me . 
And I vowed there should be no neglect of mine if , through any chink of possibility , crime could be yet turned aside . 
That same day , therefore , I came to my lord in his business room , where he sat upon some trivial occupation . 
My lord , said I , I have found a suitable investment for my small economies . 
But these are unhappily in Scotland it will take some time to lift them , and the affair presses . 
Could your lordship see his way to advance me the amount against my note ? He read me awhile with keen eyes . 
I have never inquired into the state of your affairs , Mackellar , says he . 
Beyond the amount of your caution , you may not be worth a farthing , for what I know . 
I have been a long while in your service , and never told a lie , nor yet asked a favour for myself , said I , until to day . 
A favour for the Master , he returned , quietly . 
I ask service , loyal service not that you should make and mar behind my back , and steal my own money to defeat me . 
My lord , said I , these are very unpardonable expressions . 
Think once more , Mackellar , he replied and you will see they fit the fact . 
It is your own subterfuge that is unpardonable . 
that you designed this money to evade my orders with , and I will ask your pardon freely . 
If you cannot , you must have the resolution to hear your conduct go by its own name . 
If you think I had any design but to save you I began . 
Entering without the form of any knock , I found him sitting with his Indian at a simple meal of maize porridge with some milk . 
The house within was clean and poor only a few books upon a shelf distinguished it , and Secundra's little bench . 
Mr. Bally , said I , I have near five hundred pounds laid by in Scotland , the economies of a hard life . 
A letter goes by yon ship to have it lifted . 
Have so much patience till the return ship comes in , and it is all yours , upon the same condition you offered to my lord this morning . 
He rose from the table , came forward , took me by the shoulders , and looked me in the face , smiling . 
And yet you are very fond of money ! said he . 
And yet you love money beyond all things else , except my brother ! I fear old age and poverty , said I , which is another matter . 
I will never quarrel for a name . 
Call it so , he replied . 
It is not my single thought , nor my first and yet it's there ! I would gladly see you delivered . 
I do not offer it in love , and far from that but , as God judges me and I wonder at it too ! quite without enmity . 
Ah ! says he , still holding my shoulders , and now gently shaking me , you think of me more than you suppose . 
'And I wonder at it too , he added , repeating my expression and , I suppose , something of my voice . 
You are an honest man , and for that cause I spare you . 
Spare me ? I cried . 
Spare you , he repeated , letting me go and turning away . 
And then , fronting me once more . 
You little know what I would do with it , Mackellar ! Did you think I had swallowed my defeat indeed ? Listen my life has been a series of unmerited cast backs . 
That fool , Prince Charlie , mismanaged a most promising affair there fell my first fortune . 
In Paris I had my foot once more high upon the ladder that time it was an accident a letter came to the wrong hand , and I was bare again . 
Three times I have had my hand upon the highest station and I am not yet three and forty . 
I am now at the height of my resources , sound of health , of inordinate ambition . 
Well , all this I resign I care not if I die , and the world never hear of me I care only for one thing , and that I will have . 
Mind yourself lest , when the roof falls , you , too , should be crushed under the ruins . 
It seems strange I could have looked upon her with so much indifference , for she brought death to the brothers of Durrisdeer . 
The same night there was brought to us from the ship a little packet of pamphlets . 
When I returned , his head had fallen upon the table , his arms lying abroad amongst the crumpled papers . 
My lord , my lord ! I cried as I ran forward , for I supposed he was in some fit . 
He sprang up like a figure upon wires , his countenance deformed with fury , so that in a strange place I should scarce have known him . 
His hand at the same time flew above his head , as though to strike me down . 
Leave me alone ! he screeched , and I fled , as fast as my shaking legs would bear me , for my lady . 
She , too , lost no time but when we returned , he had the door locked within , and only cried to us from the other side to leave him be . 
We looked in each other's faces , very white each supposing the blow had come at last . 
I will write to the Governor to excuse him , says she . 
We must keep our strong friends . 
But when she took up the pen , it flew out of her fingers . 
I cannot write , said she . 
Can you ? I will make a shift , my lady , said I. She looked over me as I wrote . 
That will do , she said , when I had done . 
It is more to the purpose to consider our own behaviour , said I. Must we leave him there alone ? I do not dare disturb him , she replied . 
Nature may know best it may be Nature that cries to be alone and we grope in the dark . 
Oh yes , I would leave him as he is . 
I will , then , despatch this letter , my lady , and return here , if you please , to sit with you , said I. Pray do , cries my lady . 
All afternoon we sat together , mostly in silence , watching my lord's door . 
My own mind was busy with the scene that had just passed , and its singular resemblance to my vision . 
characterised it in the vision . 
There is the whole truth at last before the public and if the differences be great , the coincidence was yet enough to fill me with uneasiness . 
About the midst of our time of waiting , she conceived an ingenious scheme , had Mr. Alexander fetched , and bid him knock at his father's door . 
My lord sent the boy about his business , but without the least violence , whether of manner or expression so that I began to entertain a hope the fit was over . 
At last , as the night fell and I was lighting a lamp that stood there trimmed , the door opened and my lord stood within upon the threshold . 
The light was not so strong that we could read his countenance when he spoke , methought his voice a little altered but yet perfectly steady . 
Mackellar , said he , carry this note to its destination with your own hand . 
Find the person alone when you deliver it . 
Henry , says my lady , you are not ill ? No , no , says be , querulously , I am occupied . 
Not at all I am only occupied . 
Otherwise I am not to be disturbed . 
And with that he once more shut himself in . 
The note was addressed to one Captain Harris , at a tavern on the portside . 
for a dangerous adventurer , highly suspected of piracy in the past , and now following the rude business of an Indian trader . 
Altogether I went upon the errand with reluctance , and from the little I saw of the captain , returned from it with sorrow . 
Although I returned with my best speed , the Captain followed close upon my heels , and he stayed late into the night . 
my lord lighting him to the gate , both men very much affected with their potations , and sometimes leaning one upon the other to confabulate . 
Yet the next morning my lord was abroad again early with a hundred pounds of money in his pocket . 
Nor yet did Harris reappear or not until the end . 
I was now much oppressed with a sense of the mysteries in which we had begun to move . 
The truth is , the pamphlet which was the spring of this affair , lay all the time on my lord's bosom . 
This Business has been long in hand , since he rendered some very disgraceful Services in Scotland and France . 
In the old Phrase , it is SIX OF THE ONE AND HALF A DOZEN OF THE OTHER but the Favour of such a Reposition is too extreme to be passed over . 
That he should credit such a rodomontade , and carry the pamphlet on his bosom and the words in his heart , is the clear proof of the man's lunacy . 
Doubtless the mere mention of Mr. Alexander , and the threat directly held out against the child's succession , precipitated that which had so long impended . 
About a week after the day of the pamphlets I was late upon the harbour side , and took a turn towards the Master's , as I often did . 
The door opened , a flood of light came forth upon the road , and I beheld a man taking his departure with friendly salutations . 
I cannot say how singularly I was shaken to recognise the adventurer Harris . 
I could not but conclude it was the hand of my lord that had brought him there and prolonged my walk in very serious and apprehensive thought . 
It was late when I came home , and there was my lord making up his portmanteau for a voyage . 
Why do you come so late ? he cried . 
We leave to morrow for Albany , you and I together and it is high time you were about your preparations . 
For Albany , my lord ? I cried . 
And for what earthly purpose ? Change of scene , said he . 
And my lady , who appeared to have been weeping , gave me the signal to obey without more parley . 
THE JOURNEY IN THE WILDERNESS . 
We made a prosperous voyage up that fine river of the Hudson , the weather grateful , the hills singularly beautified with the colours of the autumn . 
I submitted in appearance but I took private measures on my own side , and had the news of the town communicated to me daily by the politeness of our host . 
In this way I received at last a piece of intelligence for which , I may say , I had been waiting . 
with Mr. Mountain , the trader , had gone by up the river in a boat . 
I would have feared the landlord's eye , so strong the sense of some complicity upon my master's part oppressed me . 
But I made out to say I had some knowledge of the Captain , although none of Mr. Mountain , and to inquire who else was of the party . 
No more was known , for none of the rest had come ashore , and it seemed they were pressed for time to reach a certain spot before the snow should fall . 
And sure enough , the next day , there fell a sprinkle even in Albany but it passed as it came , and was but a reminder of what lay before us . 
The boat having passed by , I thought at first we should have left the town . 
My lord continued his stay in Albany where he had no ostensible affairs , and kept me by him , far from my due employment , and making a pretence of occupation . 
It is upon this passage I expect , and perhaps deserve , censure . 
I was not so dull but what I had my own thoughts . 
I could not see the Master entrust himself into the hands of Harris , and not suspect some underhand contrivance . 
Well it is true I had all these thoughts and fears , and guesses of the Master's fate . 
It is true again that I had a good deal melted towards our enemy . 
But this I always thought of as a weakness of the flesh and even culpable my mind remaining steady and quite bent against him . 
But this was the very ground of my inaction . 
I might fail indeed to save the Master , but I could not miss to make a byword of my lord . 
Thus it was that I did nothing and upon the same reasons , I am still strong to justify my course . 
We lived meanwhile in Albany , but though alone together in a strange place , had little traffic beyond formal salutations . 
I was often in bed , but never asleep , when he returned and there was scarce a night when he did not betray the influence of liquor . 
By day he would still lay upon me endless tasks , which he showed considerable ingenuity to fish up and renew , in the manner of Penelope's web . 
I think I must be the devil and you Michael Scott , I said to him one day . 
I have bridged Tweed and split the Eildons and now you set me to the rope of sand . 
He looked at me with shining eyes , and looked away again , his jaw chewing , but without words . 
Well , well , my lord , said I , your will is my pleasure . 
You do not know what you are saying , returned my lord , putting on his hat and turning his back to me . 
It is a strange thing you should take a pleasure to annoy me . 
A friend but that is a different affair . 
It is a strange thing . 
I am a man that has had ill fortune all my life through . 
I am still surrounded by contrivances . 
I am always treading in plots , he burst out . 
The whole world is banded against me . 
Do ye think that ? said he , with a manner of interest highly awakened . 
Would that be good for me ? It's a thing I never tried . 
I don't appear to carry drink the way I used to , said my lord . 
I get overtaken , Mackellar . 
But I will be more upon my guard . 
That is what I would ask of you , I replied . 
You are to bear in mind that you are Mr. Alexander's father give the bairn a chance to carry his name with some responsibility . 
Ay , ay , said he . 
Ye're a very sensible man , Mackellar , and have been long in my employ . 
But I think , if you have nothing more to say to me I will be stepping . 
If you have nothing more to say ? he added , with that burning , childish eagerness that was now so common with the man . 
No , my lord , I have nothing more , said I , dryly enough . 
Then I think I will be stepping , says my lord , and stood and looked at me fidgeting with his hat , which he had taken off again . 
I suppose you will have no errands ? No ? I am to meet Sir William Johnson , but I will be more upon my guard . 
I mind being there when I was a lad dear , it comes over me like an old song ! I was after the fishing , and I made a bonny cast . 
Eh , but I was happy . 
I wonder , Mackellar , why I am never happy now ? My lord , said I , if you would drink with more moderation you would have the better chance . 
It is an old byword that the bottle is a false consoler . 
No doubt , said he , no doubt . 
Well , I think I will be going . 
Good morning , my lord , said I. Good morning , good morning , said he , and so got himself at last from the apartment . 
I give that for a fair specimen of my lord in the morning and I must have described my patron very ill if the reader does not perceive a notable falling off . 
Something not unlike is to be heard upon the lips of children , ere they learn shame from those of a man grown elderly , it had a strange effect . 
He opened the door with noisy precaution peered in , shading his candle conceived me to slumber entered , set his light upon the table , and took off his hat . 
I saw him very plain a high , feverish exultation appeared to boil in his veins , and he stood and smiled and smirked upon the candle . 
Presently he lifted up his arm , snapped his fingers , and fell to undress . 
By equal steps , the original briskness of his acts declined and when he was stripped to his breeches , he sat on the bedside and fell to whimpering . 
I know nothing less respectable than the tears of drunkenness , and turned my back impatiently on this poor sight . 
on that slippery descent of self pity on the which , to a man unstrung by old sorrows and recent potations there is no arrest except exhaustion . 
His tears continued to flow , and the man to sit there , three parts naked , in the cold air of the chamber . 
At this I leaped from my place , went over to his side and laid a hand on his bare shoulder , which was cold as stone . 
like a child's and at the sight my impatience partially revived . 
Think shame to yourself , said I. This is bairnly conduct . 
I might have been snivelling myself , if I had cared to swill my belly with wine . 
But I went to my bed sober like a man . 
Come get into yours , and have done with this pitiable exhibition . 
Oh , Mackellar , said he , my heart is wae ! Wae ? cried I. For a good cause , I think . 
What words were these you sang as you came in ? Show pity to others , we then can talk of pity to yourself . 
You can be the one thing or the other , but I will be no party to half way houses . 
But when they laid a hand upon the child , when the child's threatened his momentary vigour whimpering off my child , my Alexander ! and he was at his tears again . 
I took him by the shoulders and shook him . 
Alexander ! said I. Do you even think of him ? Not you ! Look yourself in the face like a brave man , and you'll find you're but a self deceiver . 
The wife , the friend , the child , they're all equally forgot , and you sunk in a mere log of selfishness . 
Indeed all communication with New York was transacted by myself and it will be judged I had a thankless task of it . 
What to tell my lady and in what words , and how far to be false and how far cruel , was a thing that kept me often from my slumber . 
All this while , no doubt , my lord waited with growing impatiency for news of his accomplices . 
My lord's mind throughout this interval dwelled almost wholly in the Wilderness , following that party with whose deeds he had so much concern . 
These private , guilty considerations I would continually observe to peep forth in the man's talk , like rabbits from a hill . 
And it is the less wonder if the scene of his meditations began to draw him bodily . 
It is well known what pretext he took . 
Sir William was well attended and liberally supplied . 
Hunters brought us venison , fish was taken for us daily in the streams , and brandy ran like water . 
We proceeded by day and encamped by night in the military style sentinels were set and changed every man had his named duty and Sir William was the spring of all . 
The season was indeed late , but this desertion of the waterways impressed Sir William himself and I have heard him more than once express a sense of intimidation . 
I have come too late , I fear they must have dug up the hatchet he said and the future proved how justly he had reasoned . 
I could never depict the blackness of my soul upon this journey . 
That which he said was still coherent but it turned almost invariably upon the party for whom he kept his crazy lookout . 
I am anxious for news of my brother , he would say . 
And sometimes , when we were under way , he would fancy he spied a canoe far off upon the water or a camp on the shore , and exhibit painful agitation . 
It was impossible but Sir William should be struck with these singularities and at last he led me aside , and hinted his uneasiness . 
I touched my head and shook it quite rejoiced to prepare a little testimony against possible disclosures . 
Well , well , replied Sir William , it is none of my affairs . 
But if I had understood , you would never have been here . 
The fires were lighted on a level space at the water's edge and we supped and lay down to sleep in the customary fashion . 
At last dawn began to break upon hoar woods and mountains , the sleepers rolled in their robes , and the boisterous river dashing among spears of ice . 
The next moment he ran forward , fell on his knees at the side of the camp , and burst in tears . 
This was John Mountain , the trader , escaped from the most horrid perils and his fist word , when he got speech , was to ask if we had seen Secundra Dass . 
Seen what ? cries Sir William . 
No , said I , we have seen nothing of him . 
Why ? Nothing ? says Mountain . 
Then I was right after all . 
With that he struck his palm upon his brow . 
But what takes him back ? he cried . 
What takes the man back among dead bodies . 
There is some damned mystery here . 
This was a word which highly aroused our curiosity , but I shall be more perspicacious , if I narrate these incidents in their true order . 
NARRATIVE OF THE TRADER , MOUNTAIN . 
there was not one that had not merited the gallows . 
In a material sense , they were well enough provided and the Master in particular brought with him a tent where he might enjoy some privacy and shelter . 
Even this small indulgence told against him in the minds of his companions . 
that all his habit of command and arts of pleasing were here thrown away . 
Harris and some others had drawn apart into the woods for consultation , when they were startled by a rustling in the brush . 
They were all accustomed to the arts of Indian warfare , and Mountain had not only lived and hunted , but fought and earned some reputation , with the savages . 
At this he knew not whether to laugh or cry and his accomplices , when he had returned and reported , were in much the same dubiety . 
There was one singularity in the position . 
Each side had thus a spy hole on the counsels of the other . 
When he came at last , his face was very black . 
He had overheard enough to confirm the worst of his suspicions . 
I imagine they were dull fellows for the most part . 
The conclusion they reached , at least , was more the offspring of greed and hope , than reason . 
on the chance that their victim was as greedy , hopeful , and irrational as themselves , and might , after all , betray his life and treasure . 
Twice in the course of the next day Secundra and the Master must have appeared to themselves to have escaped and twice they were circumvented . 
But it is certain he had smelled a rat for from thenceforth he and Secundra spoke only in each other's ear , and Harris listened and shivered by the tent in vain . 
greatly lessened the chances of escape . 
And now there began between the two sides a silent contest , for life on the one hand , for riches on the other . 
And yet Mountain assures me the man's brow was never ruffled . 
to give the slip to questions , and the yet stronger confirmation of his repeated efforts to escape . 
The last of these , which brought things to a head , I am now to relate . 
It was observed that he had also eaten with unusual heartiness , and drank deep , doubtless from design . 
For some while , Secundra publicly attended on his patron , who at last became more easy , and fell asleep on the frosty ground behind the tent , the Indian returning within . 
The sentry thinking it remarkable the sleeper should not awaken , thereupon drew near and the next moment , with a great shout , informed the camp their prisoner was escaped . 
Nothing was therefore left to the conspirators but to rely entirely on the skill of Mountain . 
The night had been frosty , the ground quite hard and the sun was no sooner up than a strong thaw set in . 
It was Mountain's boast that few men could have followed that trail , and still fewer found it . 
A step or two farther brought him to one margin of a little clearing on the other , with his arms folded and his back to a huge stone , the Master sat . 
Ah , men ! says he , on his beholding them . 
Here is a fortunate encounter . 
Let us get back to camp . 
For all that , a hubbub arose oaths flew , fists were shaken , and guns pointed . 
Let us get back to camp , said the Master . 
I have an explanation to make , but it must be laid before you all . 
And in the meanwhile I would put up these weapons , one of which might very easily go off and blow away your hopes of treasure . 
I would not kill , says he , smiling , the goose with the golden eggs . 
The charm of his superiority once more triumphed and the party , in no particular order , set off on their return . 
By the way , he found occasion to get a word or two apart with Mountain . 
You are a clever fellow and a bold , says he , but I am not so sure that you are doing yourself justice . 
I would have you to consider whether you would not do better , ay , and safer , to serve me instead of serving so commonplace a rascal as Mr. Harris . 
Consider of it , he concluded , dealing the man a gentle tap upon the shoulder , and don't be in haste . 
Dead or alive , you will find me an ill man to quarrel with . 
The Master had not flinched before their onslaught nor , at this proof of the ground he had gained , did he betray the least sufficiency . 
Do not let us be in haste , says he . 
Meat first and public speaking after . 
With that they made a hasty meal and as soon as it was done , the Master , leaning on one elbow , began his speech . 
He called them bold , honest blades , declared he had never seen a more jovial company , work better done , or pains more merrily supported . 
But you know only pretty well that is a point I shall arrive at presently , and be you ready to remark it when it comes . 
There is a traitor here a double traitor I will give you his name before I am done and let that suffice for now . 
Now , men , hear the truth for the first time . 
At this point he made a bold stroke with excellent effect . 
Yes , for him the treasure is all money in the bargain . 
You must find it or go starve . 
There is the whole truth , said he and with one exception , I put myself entirely in your hands . 
Indeed , the Master had set himself in the brightest place , and kept his face there , to be the centre of men's eyes doubtless on a profound calculation . 
And here , I daresay , his bravado carried him too far and prejudiced his case . 
At least , after a cast or two back and forward , opinion settled finally against him . 
But the rock he split upon was Hastie . 
to conceal the beginnings of despair upon his countenance . 
Hastie dismissed the most of what they had heard as nothing to the matter what they wanted was the treasure . 
All that was said of Harris might be true , and they would have to see to that in time . 
Here he was whether caught or come back was all one to Hastie the point was to make an end of the business . 
As for the talk of deposing and electing captains , he hoped they were all free men and could attend their own affairs . 
That was dust flung in their eyes , and so was the proposal to fight Harris . 
He shall fight no one in this camp , I can tell him that , said Hastie . 
We had trouble enough to get his arms away from him , and we should look pretty fools to give them back again . 
But if it's excitement the gentleman is after , I can supply him with more than perhaps he cares about . 
And there , says he , producing his weapon , there is the pistol that I mean to use . 
Come , I call you a man , cries the Master , sitting up and looking at the speaker with an air of admiration . 
I didn't ask you to call me anything , returned Hastie which is it to be ? That's an idle question , said the Master . 
Needs must when the devil drives . 
The truth is we are within easy walk of the place , and I will show it you to morrow . 
With that , as if all were quite settled , and settled exactly to his mind , he walked off to his tent , whither Secundra had preceded him . 
But doubtless within , if we could see there , his soul trembled . 
As a matter of fact , this was a vanity of that fallen divinity student's , to which he had cunningly addressed himself . 
Hastie examined him and being flattered , ignorant , and highly auspicious , knew not in the least whether the man was sick or malingering . 
announced that the patient was in a fair way to die . 
For all that , he added with an oath , and if he bursts by the wayside , he must bring us this morning to the treasure . 
he should have a day's rest in spite of Hastie's teeth . 
The next morning he was manifestly worse , and Hastie himself began to display something of humane concern , so easily does even the pretence of doctoring awaken sympathy . 
he should be able to correct their error . 
But here arose a difficulty on which he doubtless counted . 
None of these men would trust another , none would consent to stay behind . 
affected by the natural peril of the man whom they callously designed to murder . 
perilous to their own safety , roughly but kindly endeavoured to console him . 
That night they placed no sentinel , but lay altogether about the fire , in the customary woodman fashion , the heads outward , like the spokes of a wheel . 
been secretly butchered , and there lay , still wrapped as to his body in his mantle , but offering above that ungodly and horrific spectacle of the scalped head . 
was well known to all . 
But they laid the chief blame on their unsentinelled posture and fired with the neighbourhood of the treasure , determined to continue where they were . 
were infected with the fear of Indians . 
he drew near the fire to awaken his successor . 
slept on the lee side of the circle , something farther off in consequence than those to windward , and in a place darkened by the blowing smoke . 
the firelight shone upon the sleeper , and showed him , like Pinkerton , dead and scalped . 
Their fire they left still burning , and their dead comrade unburied . 
By this they had become light headed , they had quite missed their path in the wilderness , their stores were already running low . 
With the further horrors , it is superfluous that I should swell this narrative , already too prolonged . 
The trader is firmly persuaded their unseen enemy was some warrior of his own acquaintance , and that he himself was spared by favour . 
But he was sane enough when it came to English . 
You think he will be gone quite away ? he asked , upon their blest awakening in safety . 
I pray God so , I believe so , I dare to believe so , Mountain had replied almost with incoherence , as he described the scene to me . 
THE JOURNEY IN THE WILDERNESS . 
For Mountain's intelligence not only changed the world for my Lord Durrisdeer , but materially affected the designs of Sir William Johnson . 
These I find I must lay more at length before the reader . 
Here , on the borders , he learned that he was come too late and a difficult choice was thus presented to a man not any more bold than prudent . 
I have come too late , he said more than once , and would fall into a deep consideration , his head bowed in his hands , his foot patting the ground . 
My lord , to be quite frank with you , I find myself in two minds , said he . 
I think it very needful I should go on , but not at all proper I should any longer enjoy the pleasure of your company . 
We are here still upon the water side and I think the risk to southward no great matter . 
I could not behold him myself without a jarring irritation , such as , I believe , is too frequently the uppermost feeling on the sickness of those dear to us . 
Others , I could not but remark . 
were scarce able to support his neighbourhood Sir William eviting to be near him , Mountain dodging his eye , and , when he met it , blenching and halting in his story . 
At this appeal , however , my lord appeared to recover his command upon himself . 
To Albany ? said he , with a good voice . 
Not short of it , at least , replied Sir William . 
There is no safety nearer hand . 
I would be very sweir to return , says my lord . 
I am not afraid of Indians , he added , with a jerk . 
I wish that I could say so much , returned Sir William , smiling although , if any man durst say it , it should be myself . 
My lord turned to Mountain . 
What did he pretend he died of ? he asked . 
I don't think I understand your honour , said the trader , pausing like a man very much affected , in the dressing of some cruel frost bites . 
For a moment my lord seemed at a full stop and then , with some irritation , I ask you what he died of . 
Surely that's a plain question , said he . 
Oh ! I don't know , said Mountain . 
He seemed to sicken natural , and just pass away . 
There it is , you see ! concluded my lord , turning to Sir William . 
Your lordship is too deep for me , replied Sir William . 
But , God damn me , the man's buried ! cried Sir William . 
I will never believe that , returned my lord , painfully trembling . 
I'll never believe it ! he cried again , and jumped to his feet . 
Did he LOOK dead ? he asked of Mountain . 
Look dead ? repeated the trader . 
Why , what would he be at ? I tell you , I put the sods upon him . 
My lord caught Sir William by the coat with a hooked hand . 
This man has the name of my brother , says he , but it's well understood that he was never canny . 
Canny ? says Sir William . 
What is that ? He's not of this world , whispered my lord , neither him nor the black deil that serves him . 
on his breastbone , and the hot blood spirt in my very face , time and again , time and again ! he repeated , with a gesture indescribable . 
But he was never dead for that , said he , and I sighed aloud . 
Why should I think he was dead now ? No , not till I see him rotting , says he . 
Sir William looked across at me with a long face . 
Mountain forgot his wounds , staring and gaping . 
My lord , said I , I wish you would collect your spirits . 
But my throat was so dry , and my own wits so scattered , I could add no more . 
No , says my lord , it's not to be supposed that he would understand me . 
Mackellar does , for he kens all , and has seen him buried before now . 
This is a very good servant to me , Sir William , this man Mackellar he buried him with his own hands he and my father by the light of two siller candlesticks . 
The other man is a familiar spirit he brought him from Coromandel . 
I would have told ye this long syne , Sir William , only it was in the family . 
These last remarks he made with a kind of a melancholy composure , and his time of aberration seemed to pass away . 
You can ask yourself what it all means , he proceeded . 
My brother falls sick , and dies , and is buried , as so they say and all seems very plain . 
But why did the familiar go back ? I think ye must see for yourself it's a point that wants some clearing . 
I will be at your service , my lord , in half a minute , said Sir William , rising . 
Of course , this is midsummer madness , said Sir William , as soon as we were gotten out of bearing . 
Why , certainly , said I. The man is mad . 
Shall I seize and bind him ? asked Sir William . 
I will upon your authority . 
If these are all ravings , that should certainly be done . 
Sir William , said I at last , I think my lord not sane , and have long thought him so . 
But there are degrees in madness and whether he should be brought under restraint Sir William , I am no fit judge , I concluded . 
I will be the judge , said he . 
Was there , in all that jargon , any word of truth or sanity ? Do you hesitate ? he asked . 
, it would be impossible to make this matter clear to you . 
Say the word , and I will do it , right or wrong . 
And , at any rate , I will say so much , that my lord is not so crazy as he seems . 
This is a strange matter , into the tail of which you are unhappily drifted . 
I desire none of your secrets , replied Sir William but I will be plain , at the risk of incivility , and confess that I take little pleasure in my present company . 
I would be the last to blame you , said I , for that . 
I have not asked either for your censure or your praise , sir , returned Sir William . 
I desire simply to be quit of you and to that effect , I put a boat and complement of men at your disposal . 
This is fairly offered , said I , after reflection . 
But you must suffer me to say a word upon the other side . 
We have a natural curiosity to learn the truth of this affair I have some of it myself my lord has but too much . 
The matter of the Indian's return is enigmatical . 
to probe it to the bottom . 
There is nothing against his character ? Nothing , Sir William , I replied . 
And the other ? he said . 
I have heard my lord , of course but , from the circumstances of his servant's loyalty , I must suppose he had some noble qualities . 
You must not ask me that ! I cried . 
Hell may have noble flames . 
I have known him a score of years , and always hated , and always admired , and always slavishly feared him . 
I appear to intrude again upon your secrets , said Sir William , believe me , inadvertently . 
Enough that I will see the grave , and rescue the Indian . 
Upon these terms , can you persuade your master to return to Albany ? Sir William , said I , I will tell you how it is . 
You do not see my lord to advantage it will seem even strange to you that I should love him but I do , and I am not alone . 
If he goes back to Albany , it must be by force , and it will be the death warrant of his reason , and perhaps his life . 
That is my sincere belief but I am in your hands , and ready to obey , if you will assume so much responsibility as to command . 
I will have no shred of responsibility it is my single endeavour to avoid the same , cried Sir William . 
You insist upon following this journey up and be it so ! I wash my hands of the whole matter . 
With which word , he turned upon his heel and gave the order to break camp and my lord , who had been hovering near by , came instantly to my side . 
Which is it to be ? said he . 
You are to have your way , I answered . 
You shall see the grave . 
Before us was the high range of mountains toward which we had been all day deviously drawing near . 
silver , for already at the higher altitudes the snow fell nightly but the woods and the low ground only breathed upon with frost . 
There was no breath of air nowhere a twig creaked and the sounds of our own camp were hushed and swallowed up in the surrounding stillness . 
stood with his elbow in one hand , and his chin sunk in the other , gazing before him on the surface of the wood . 
My eyes followed his , and rested almost pleasantly upon the frosted contexture of the pines , rising in moonlit hillocks , or sinking in the shadow of small glens . 
I could not but think how good was the end of that long travel and with that , my mind swung at a tangent to my lord . 
Oh God , said I , this was the best man to me and to himself , and now I shrink from him . 
He did no wrong , or not till he was broke with sorrows these are but his honourable wounds that we begin to shrink from . 
It was neither very loud , nor very near yet , bursting as it did from so profound and so prolonged a silence , it startled the camp like an alarm of trumpets . 
Ere I had taken breath , Sir William was beside me , the main part of the voyagers clustered at his back , intently giving ear . 
gave to the group a strange air of animation and anxiety . 
My lord was to the front , crouching a little forth , his hand raised as for silence a man turned to stone . 
And still the sounds continued , breathlessly renewed with a precipitate rhythm . 
Suddenly Mountain spoke in a loud , broken whisper , as of a man relieved . 
I have it now , he said and , as we all turned to hear him , the Indian must have known the cache , he added . 
That is he he is digging out the treasure . 
Why , to be sure ! exclaimed Sir William . 
We were geese not to have supposed so much . 
The only thing is , Mountain resumed , the sound is very close to our old camp . 
And , again , I do not see how he is there before us , unless the man had wings ! Greed and fear are wings , remarked Sir William . 
But this rogue has given us an alert , and I have a notion to return the compliment . 
Our way led down into a hollow of the land and as we descended , the sounds diminished and had almost died away . 
Upon the other slope it was more open , only dotted with a few pines , and several vast and scattered rocks that made inky shadows in the moonlight . 
A narrow plateau , overlooked by the white mountains , and encompassed nearer hand by woods , lay bare to the strong radiance of the moon . 
Rough goods , such as make the wealth of foresters , were sprinkled here and there upon the ground in meaningless disarray . 
About the midst , a tent stood , silvered with frost the door open , gaping on the black interior . 
At the one end of this small stage lay what seemed the tattered remnants of a man . 
still unchanged , must have impressed the mind of the most careless . 
of Secundra ankle deep in the grave of his late master . 
Some night birds arose from the boughs upon our coming , and then settled back but Secundra , absorbed in his toil heard or heeded not at all . 
You damned sacrilegious hound ! he cried . 
What's this ? Secundra leaped in the air , a little breathless cry escaped him , the tool flew from his grasp , and he stood one instant staring at the speaker . 
Well , then , you come , you help he was saying . 
Him ! he screamed , clasping his hands , and shrinking on himself . 
Come , come ! said Sir William . 
There is none here to do you harm , if you be innocent and if you be guilty , your escape is quite cut off . 
Speak , what do you here among the graves of the dead and the remains of the unburied ? You no murderer ? inquired Secundra . 
You true man ? you see me safe ? I will see you safe , if you be innocent , returned Sir William . 
I have said the thing , and I see not wherefore you should doubt it . 
Now I go save the sahib he see you swing in a rope . 
The sahib , he continued , pointing to the grave , he not dead . 
He bury , he not dead . 
My lord uttered a little noise , moved nearer to the grave , and stood and stared in it . 
Buried and not dead ? exclaimed Sir William . 
What kind of rant is this ? See , sahib , said Secundra . 
The sahib and I alone with murderers try all way to escape , no way good . 
What is the creature talking of ? cried Sir William . 
I tell you I bury him alive , said Secundra . 
I teach him swallow his tongue . 
Now dig him up pretty good hurry , and he not much worse . 
Sir William turned to the nearest of his men . 
Light a fire , said he . 
My lot seems to be cast with the insane . 
You good man , returned Secundra . 
Now I go dig the sahib up . 
He returned as he spoke to the grave , and resumed his former toil . 
My lord stood rooted , and I at my lord's side , fearing I knew not what . 
The frost was not yet very deep , and presently the Indian threw aside his tool , and began to scoop the dirt by handfuls . 
Then he disengaged a corner of a buffalo robe and then I saw hair catch among his fingers yet , a moment more , and the moon shone on something white . 
Awhile Secundra crouched upon his knees , scraping with delicate fingers , breathing with puffed lips and when he moved aside , I beheld the face of the Master wholly disengaged . 
his lips and chin were mantled with a swarthy beard . 
Secundra paid no heed to our remarks , digging swift as a terrier in the loose earth . 
The sight held us with a horror not before experienced . 
burst into a kind of sobbing . 
Now , said Secundra , you help me lift him out . 
Of the flight of time , I have no idea it may have been three hours , and it may have been five , that the Indian laboured to reanimate his master's body . 
The next moment I beheld his eyelids flutter the next they rose entirely , and the week old corpse looked me for a moment in the face . 
So much display of life I can myself swear to . 
And this may have been I know not , I was otherwise engaged . 
For at that first disclosure of the dead man's eyes , my Lord Durrisdeer fell to the ground , and when I raised him up , he was a corpse . 
Day came , and still Secundra could not be persuaded to desist from his unavailing efforts . 
, the black spirit of the Master held aloof from its discarded clay and by about the hour of noon , even the faithful servant was at length convinced . 
He took it with unshaken quietude . 
Too cold , said he , good way in India , no good here . 
And , asking for some food , which he ravenously devoured as soon as it was set before him , he drew near to the fire and took his place at my elbow . 
It was the same throughout he seemed to have outlived at once and with the same effort , his grief for his master and his terror of myself and Mountain . 
H. D. , HIS BROTHER , AFTER A LIFE OF UNMERITED DISTRESS , BRAVELY SUPPORTED , DIED ALMOST IN THE SAME HOUR , AND SLEEPS IN THE SAME GRAVE WITH HIS FRATERNAL ENEMY . 
THE PIETY OF HIS WIFE AND ONE OLD SERVANT RAISED THIS STONE TO BOTH . 
Footnotes A kind of firework made with damp powder . 
Should not this be Alan BRECK Stewart , afterwards notorious as the Appin murderer ? The Chevalier is sometimes very weak on names . 
This Teach of the SARAH must not be confused with the celebrated Blackbeard . 
The dates and facts by no means tally . 
It is possible the second Teach may have at once borrowed the name and imitated the more excessive part of his manners from the first . 
Even the Master of Ballantrae could make admirers . 
And is not this the whole explanation ? since this Dutton , exactly like the officers , enjoyed the stimulus of some responsibility . 
MACKELLAR A complete blunder there was at this date no word of the marriage see above in my own narration . 
