The East Siders hated the West Siders , and thrashed them when they got a chance and the West Siders , when fortune favored them , returned the compliment with interest . 
It required considerable courage for a boy to venture , unattended by comrades , into the territory of the enemy and no one took the risk unless dire necessity compelled him . 
The hostile parties had played at war so long that they had forgotten that it was play and now were actually inspired with the emotions which they had formerly simulated . 
Under the leadership of their chieftains , Halvor Reitan and Viggo Hook , they held councils of war , sent out scouts , planned midnight surprises , and fought at times mimic battles . 
It was a great consolation to him that he became a hero to all the West Siders and was promoted for bravery in the field to the rank of first lieutenant . 
He had the sympathy of all his companions in arms and got innumerable bites of apples , cancelled postage stamps , and colored advertising labels in token of their esteem . 
But the principal effect of this first serious wound was to invest the war with a breathless and all absorbing interest . 
It was now no longer make believe , but deadly earnest . 
Blood had flowed insults had been exchanged in due order , and offended honor cried for vengeance . 
It was fortunate that the river divided the West Siders from the East Siders , or it would have been difficult to tell what might have happened . 
He was the eldest son of Colonel Hook of the regular army , and meant some day to be a Von Moltke or a Napoleon . 
He felt in his heart that he was destined for something great and in conformity with this conviction assumed a superb behavior , which his comrades found very admirable . 
He had the gift of leadership in a marked degree , and established his authority by a due mixture of kindness and severity . 
Those boys whom he honored with his confidence were absolutely attached to him . 
Those whom , with magnificent arbitrariness , he punished and persecuted , felt meekly that they had probably deserved it and if they had not , it was somehow in the game . 
There never was a more absolute king than Viggo , nor one more abjectly courted and admired . 
His costume was usually in keeping with his own conception of these characters , in so far as his scanty opportunities permitted . 
But quite independently of his poor trappings Viggo was to his comrades an august personage . 
I doubt if the Grand Vizier feels more flattered and gratified by the favor of the Sultan than little Marcus Henning did , when Viggo condescended to be civil to him . 
Marcus was small , round shouldered , spindle shanked , and freckle faced . 
They were made to grow in and somehow he never caught up with them , he once said , with no intention of being funny . 
His father , who was Colonel Hook's nearest neighbor , kept a modest country shop , in which you could buy anything , from dry goods and groceries to shoes and medicines . 
You would have to be very ingenious to ask for a thing which Henning could not supply . 
The smell in the store carried out the same idea for it was a mixture of all imaginable smells under the sun . 
The principal ingredient was salted herring but there was also a suspicion of tarred ropes , plug tobacco , prunes , dried codfish , and oiled tarpaulin . 
It was not so much kindness of heart as respect for his own dignity which made Viggo refrain from calling Marcus a Muskrat or a Smelling Bottle . 
And yet Marcus regarded this gracious forbearance on his part as the mark of a noble soul . 
He had been compelled to accept these offensive nicknames , and , finding rebellion vain , he had finally acquiesced in them . 
He never loved to be called a Muskrat , though he answered to the name mechanically . 
It was all so very real to him that he never would have thought of doubting the importance of his mission . 
He was rather honored by the trust reposed in him , and was only intent upon earning a look or word of scant approval from the superb personage whom he worshipped . 
Halvor Reitan , the chief of the East Siders , was a big , burly peasant lad , with a pimpled face , fierce blue eyes , and a shock of towy hair . 
But he had muscles as hard as twisted ropes , and sinews like steel . 
He had , in fact , been so praised for his strength that he never neglected to accept , or even to create , opportunities for displaying it . 
His manner was that of a bully but it was vanity and not malice which made him always spoil for a fight . 
He and Viggo Hook had attended the parson's Confirmation Class , together , and it was there their hostility had commenced . 
And when all these provocations proved unavailing he determined to dispense with any pretext , but simply thrash his enemy within an inch of his life at the first opportunity which presented itself . 
He grew to hate Viggo and was always aching to molest him . 
During recess the so called genteel boys , who had better clothes and better manners than the peasant lads , separated themselves from the rest , and conversed or played with each other . 
No one will wonder that such behavior was exasperating to the poorer boys . 
I am far from defending Viggo's behavior in this instance . 
He was here , as everywhere , the acknowledged leader and therefore more cordially hated than the rest . 
It was the Roundhead hating the Cavalier and the Cavalier making merry at the expense of the Roundhead . 
There was only one boy in the Confirmation Class who was doubtful as to what camp should claim him , and that was little Marcus Henning . 
He was a kind of amphibious animal who , as he thought , really belonged nowhere . 
Thus it came to pass that little Marcus , whose inclinations drew him toward Viggo's party , was yet forced to associate with the partisans of Halvor Reitan . 
He had never seen any one who united so many superb qualities , nor one who looked every inch as noble as he did . 
It did not discourage him in the least that his first approaches met with no cordial reception . 
His offer to communicate to Viggo where there was a hawk's nest was coolly declined , and even the attractions of fox dens and rabbits' burrows were valiantly resisted . 
But an event soon occurred which was destined to change the relations of the two boys . 
Then , he observed , he would make him dance a jig that would take the starch out of him . 
The others declared that this would be capital fun , and enthusiastically promised their assistance . 
Only one boy sat silent , and made no offer to thrash anybody , and that was Marcus Henning . 
Well , Muskrat , cried Halvor Reitan , whom are you going to take on your conscience ? No one , said Marcus . 
Look a here , Muskrat , he heard Halvor cry , you promised to keep mum . 
Marcus , instead of answering , took to his heels and ran . 
Boys , the scoundrel is going to betray us ! screamed the chief . 
Now come , boys ! We've got to catch him , dead or alive . 
A volley of stones , big and little , was hurled after the fugitive , who now realizing his position ran for dear life . 
The stones hailed down round about him occasionally one vicious missile would whiz past his ear , and send a cold shudder through him . 
A stone gave him a thump in the back , but though he felt a gradual heat spreading from the spot which it hit , he was conscious of no pain . 
Presently a larger missile struck him in the neck , and he heard a breathless snorting close behind him . 
That was the end he gave himself up for lost , for those boys would have no mercy on him if they captured him . 
But in the next moment he heard a fall and an oath , and the voice was that of Halvor Reitan . 
He breathed a little more freely as he saw the river run with its swelling current at his feet . 
Quite mechanically , without clearly knowing what he did , he sprang into the boat , grabbed a boat hook , and with three strong strokes pushed himself out into the deep water . 
Fortunately the river was partly dammed , in order to accumulate water for the many saw mills under the falls . 
It would therefore have been no very difficult feat to paddle across , if his aching arms had had an atom of strength left in them . 
Then he dragged himself wearily up the hill side to Colonel Hook's mansion , and when he had given his message to Viggo , fell into a dead faint . 
A doctor was now sent for the stone was cut out without difficulty , and Marcus was invited to remain as Viggo's guest until he recovered . 
It was this series of incidents which led to the war between the East Siders and the West Siders . 
It was a mere accident that the partisans of Viggo Hook lived on the west side of the river , and those of Halvor Reitan mostly on the east side . 
He surrounded himself with a trusty body guard , which attended him wherever he went . 
The East Siders , when they captured a West Sider , went to work with less ceremony they simply thrashed their captive soundly and let him run , if run he could . 
In Norway confirmation is always preceded by a public examination of the candidates in the aisle of the church . 
The order in which they are arranged is supposed to indicate their attainments , but does , as a rule , indicate the rank and social position of their parents . 
Marcus Henning was captured by a hostile outpost , and was being conducted to the abode of the chief , when , by a clever stratagem , he succeeded in making his escape . 
These were the chief incidents of the winter , though there were many others of less consequence that served to keep the boys in a delightful state of excitement . 
They enjoyed the war keenly , though they pretended to themselves that they were being ill used and suffered terrible hardships . 
The glaciers groan , and send their milk white torrents down toward the ocean . 
The snow patches in the forest glens look gray and soiled , and the pines perspire a delicious resinous odor which cheers the soul with the conviction that spring has come . 
But the peasant looks anxiously at the sun and the river at such times , for he knows that there is danger of inundation . 
In order to prevent log jams , which are often attended with terrible disasters , men are stationed night and day at the narrows of the rivers . 
They were armed with their bows , as usual , knowing that they were always liable to be surprised by their vigilant enemy . 
The Reitan party was the first to begin this sport , and an arrow hit General Viggo's hat before he gave orders to repel the assault . 
I know that I can , now as always , trust you to shed glory upon our arms , and to maintain our noble fame and honorable traditions . 
The enemy is before us . 
You have heard and seen his challenge . 
It behooves us to respond gallantly . 
To jump and skip like rabbits is unmilitary and unsoldierlike . 
Then we will land on the east side , occupy the heights , and rout our foe . 
Now let each man do his duty . 
The river bed was here expanded to a wide basin , in which the logs floated lazily down to the cataract below . 
Trees and underbrush , which usually stood on dry land , were half submerged in the yellow water , and the current gurgled slowly about their trunks with muddy foam and bubbles . 
It was an exciting spectacle to see these daring fellows leap from log to log , with birch bark shoes on their feet . 
It was the example of these hardy and agile lumbermen , trained from childhood to sport with danger , which inspired Viggo and his followers with a desire to show their mettle . 
You will be the last to leave shore . 
Report to me if any one fails to obey orders . 
Shall be done , General , Marcus responded , with a deferential military salute . 
The bows , you understand , will be slung by the straps across the backs of the men , while they steer and push with their poles . 
Certainly , General , said Marcus , with another salute . 
All right , General , answered Marcus , with a third salute . 
And now began the battle . 
He meant to prevent the enemy from landing , or , still better , he would meet him half way , and drive him back to his own shore . 
The latter , though not the wiser course , was the plan which Halvor Reitan adopted . 
To have a tussle with the high nosed Viggo in the middle of the basin , to dislodge him from his raft that seemed to Halvor a delightful project . 
He knew that Viggo was a good swimmer , so he feared no dangerous consequences and even if he had , it would not have restrained him . 
He was so much stronger than Viggo , and here was his much longed for opportunity . 
With great despatch he made himself a raft of two logs , and seating himself astride them , with his legs in the water , put off from shore . 
He shouted to his men to follow him , and they needed no urging . 
Viggo was now near the middle of the basin , with twenty or thirty picked archers close behind him . 
They fired volley after volley of arrows against the enemy , and twice drove him back to the shore . 
Now he was but a dozen feet from his foe . 
He cared little for his bow now the boat hook was a far more effectual weapon . 
Viggo saw at a glance that he meant to pull his raft toward him , and , relying upon his greater strength , fling him into the water . 
His first plan would therefore be to fence with his own boat hook , so as to keep his antagonist at a distance . 
Take care , General ! said a respectful voice close to Viggo's ear . 
There is a small log jam down below , which is getting bigger every moment . 
When it is got afloat , it will be dangerous out here . 
What are you doing here , Sergeant ? asked the General , severely . 
Did I not tell you to be the last to leave the shore ? You did , General , Marcus replied , meekly , and I obeyed . 
But I have pushed to the front so as to be near you . 
I don't need you , Sergeant , Viggo responded , you may go to the rear . 
The booming of the cataract nearly drowned his voice and Marcus pretended not to hear it . 
The boys who were steering their rafts against each other in the comparatively placid basin were too absorbed in their mimic battle to heed what was going on below . 
Halvor and Viggo were fighting desperately with their boat hooks , the one attacking and the other defending himself with great dexterity . 
They scarcely perceived , in their excitement , that the current was dragging them slowly toward the cataract nor did they note the warning cries of the men and women on the banks . 
Viggo's blood was hot , his temples throbbed , his eyes flashed . 
He would show this miserable clown who had dared to insult him , that the trained skill of a gentleman is worth more than the rude strength of a bully . 
Splash ! splash ! splash ! one East Sider was dismounted , got an involuntary bath , but scrambled up on his raft again . 
The next time it was a West Sider who got a ducking , but seemed none the worse for it . 
All the interest of the contending parties was concentrated on the duel of their chieftains . 
It seemed now really that Halvor was getting the worst of it . 
He could not get close enough to use his brawny muscles and in precision of aim and adroitness of movement he was not Viggo's match . 
, to push the raft forward , but every time Viggo managed to turn it sideward , and Halvor had to exert all his presence of mind to keep his seat . 
At this same instant a tremendous crash was heard from below , followed by a long rumble as of mighty artillery . 
When the clouds of spray had cleared away , only three figures were visible . 
Save yourself , General ! he yelled , wildly . 
I can't hold on much longer . 
But Viggo did not heed . 
He saw nothing but the pale , frightened face of his antagonist , who might lose his life . 
With a desperate effort he flung his boat hook toward him and succeeded this time in laying hold of the leather girdle about his waist . 
One hundred feet below yawned the foaming , weltering abyss , from which the white smoke ascended . 
If Marcus lost his grip , if the branch snapped no human power could save them they were all dead men . 
By this time the people on the shore had discovered that three lives were hanging on the brink of eternity . 
Twenty men had waded waist deep into the current and had flung a stout rope to the noble little fellow who was risking his own life for his friend . 
Keep your hold , my brave lad ! they cried hold on another minute ! Grab the rope ! screamed others . 
Marcus clinched his teeth , and his numb arms trembled , mist gathered in his eyes his heart stood still . 
But with a clutch that seemed superhuman he held on . 
He had but one thought Viggo , his chief ! Viggo , his idol ! Viggo , his general ! He must save him or die with him . 
With quick resolution he plunged the beak of his own boat hook into Marcus's raft , and shouted to Halvor to save himself . 
Halvor Reitan was the first to step ashore . 
But no joyous welcome greeted him from those whose sympathies had , a little while ago , been all on his side . 
It was Marcus , not he , to whom their ovation was due . 
But poor Marcus it was well for him that he had fainted from over exertion for otherwise he would have fainted from embarrassment at the honors which would have been showered upon him . 
The West Siders , marching two abreast , with their bows slung across their shoulders , escorted their general home , cheering and shouting as they went . 
Please , General , he stammered , don't bother about me . 
Viggo had thought of making a speech exalting the heroism of his faithful follower . 
But he saw at a glance that his praise would be more grateful to Marcus , if he received it in private . 
Then , on the other hand , he had an old great aunt who lived but a few miles from the city . 
She had , from conscientious motives , he feared , sent him an invitation to pass Christmas with her . 
But Albert had a poor opinion of Aunt Elsbeth . 
He thought her a very tedious person . 
She had a dozen cats , talked of nothing but sermons and lessons , and asked him occasionally , with pleasant humor , whether he got many whippings at school . 
Now , the prospect of being caged for two weeks with this estimable lady was , as I said , not at all pleasant to Albert . 
He was sixteen years old , loved out door sports , and had no taste for cats . 
His chief pride was his muscle , and no boy ever made his acquaintance without being invited to feel the size and hardness of his biceps . 
This was a standing joke in the Latin school , and Albert was generally known among his companions as Biceps Grimlund . 
Like most blond people , when sunburnt , he was red , not brown and this became a source of great satisfaction when he learned that Lord Nelson had the same peculiarity . 
Albert's favorite books were the sea romances of Captain Marryat , whose Peter Simple and Midshipman Easy he held to be the noblest products of human genius . 
Two days before Christmas , Biceps Grimlund was sitting in his room , looking gloomily out of the window . 
At last he heaved a deep sigh and languidly began to pack his trunk . 
Hurrah ! he cried , I'm your man . 
And to prove it , he seized Ralph by the shoulders , gave him a vigorous whirl and forced him to join in the dance . 
Albert flung himself down on his old rep covered sofa . 
It seemed to have some internal disorder , for its springs rattled and a vague musical twang indicated that something or other had snapped . 
It had seen much maltreatment , that poor old piece of furniture , and bore visible marks of it . 
When , after various exhibitions of joy , their boisterous delight had quieted down , both boys began to discuss their plans for the vacation . 
But I fear my groom may freeze , down there in the street , Ralph ejaculated , cutting short the discussion it is bitter cold , and he can't leave the horses . 
Hurry up , now , old man , and I'll help you pack . 
It did not take them long to complete the packing . 
Then they started off merrily with jingling bells , and waved a farewell toward many a window , wherein were friends and acquaintances . 
Solheim was about twenty miles from the city , and it was nine o'clock in the evening when the boys arrived there . 
The moon was shining brightly , and the Milky Way , with its myriad stars , looked like a luminous mist across the vault of the sky . 
The aurora borealis swept down from the north with white and pink radiations which flushed the dark blue sky for an instant , and vanished . 
The earth was white , as far as the eye could reach splendidly , dazzlingly white . 
And out of the white radiance rose the great dark pile of masonry called Solheim , with its tall chimneys and dormer windows and old fashioned gables . 
Round about stood the tall leafless maples and chestnut trees , sparkling with frost and stretching their gaunt arms against the heavens . 
Their breath was blown in two vapory columns from their nostrils and drifted about their heads like steam about a locomotive . 
Here , father , he cried . 
Biceps , this is my father and , father , this is my Biceps What stuff you are talking , boy , his father exclaimed . 
How can this young fellow be your biceps Well , how can a man keep his senses in such confusion ? said the son of the house . 
This is my friend and classmate , Albert Grimlund , alias Biceps Grimlund , and the strongest man in the whole school . 
Just feel his biceps , mother , and you'll see . 
No , I thank you . 
I'll take your word for it , replied Mrs. Hoyer . 
As I intend to treat him as a friend of my son should be treated , I hope he will not feel inclined to give me any proof of his muscularity . 
When , with the aid of the younger children , the travellers had divested themselves of their various wraps and overcoats , they were ushered into the old fashioned sitting room . 
In one corner roared an enormous , many storied , iron stove . 
It had a picture in relief , on one side , of Diana the Huntress , with her nymphs and baying hounds . 
In the middle of the room stood a big table , and in the middle of the table a big lamp , about which the entire family soon gathered . 
It was so cosey and homelike that Albert , before he had been half an hour in the room , felt gratefully the atmosphere of mutual affection which pervaded the house . 
It amused him particularly to watch the little girls , of whom there were six , and to observe their profound admiration for their big brother . 
Now , if I did not have so much else to tell you , I should stop here and describe that supper . 
Albert and Ralph found themselves , with four smaller Hoyers , in an enormous low ceiled room with many windows . 
In three corners stood huge canopied bedsteads , with flowered chintz curtains and mountainous eiderdown coverings which swelled up toward the ceiling . 
, was roaring merrily , and sending a long red sheen from its draught hole across the floor . 
, and while undressing played various pranks upon each other , which created much merriment . 
He had to be wrapped in oil and cotton after that adventure , and he recovered in due time , but never quite relished the distinction he had acquired by his pictorial skin . 
It was long before Albert fell asleep for the cold kept up a continual fusillade , as of musketry , during the entire night . 
This roar finally lulled Albert to sleep , in spite of the startling noises about him . 
The next morning the boys were aroused at seven o'clock by a servant , who brought a tray with the most fragrant coffee and hot rolls . 
So it seemed to them , at least for any break in the ordinary routine , be it ever so slight , is an event to the young . 
, and arrayed themselves to descend and meet the family at the nine o'clock breakfast . 
When this repast was at an end , the question arose how they were to entertain their guest , and various plans were proposed . 
But to all Ralph's propositions his mother interposed the objection that it was too cold . 
Mother is right , said Mr. Hoyer it is so cold that 'the chips jump on the hill side . 
You'll have to be content with indoor sports to day . 
But , father , it is not more than twenty degrees below zero , the boy demurred . 
I am sure we can stand that , if we keep in motion . 
I have been out at thirty without losing either ears or nose . 
He went to the window to observe the thermometer but the dim daylight scarcely penetrated the fantastic frost crystals , which , like a splendid exotic flora , covered the panes . 
Only at the upper corner , where the ice had commenced to thaw , a few timid sunbeams were peeping in , making the lamp upon the table seem pale and sickly . 
Whenever the door to the hall was opened a white cloud of vapor rolled in and every one made haste to shut the door , in order to save the precious heat . 
I am going to take your rifle , if you'll let me , Ralph exclaimed . 
I have a fancy we might strike bigger game than mountain cock . 
I shouldn't object to a wolf or two . 
You are welcome to the rifle , said his father but I doubt whether you'll find wolves on the ice so early in the day . 
Mr. Hoyer took the rifle from its case , examined it carefully , and handed it to Ralph . 
Albert , who was a less experienced hunter than Ralph , preferred a fowling piece to the rifle especially as he had no expectation of shooting anything but ptarmigan . 
The boys looked like Esquimaux , with their heads bundled up in scarfs , and nothing visible except their eyes and a few hoary locks of hair which the frost had silvered . 
What was that ? cried Albert , startled by a sharp report which reverberated from the mountains . 
They had penetrated the forest on the west side , and ranged over the ice for an hour , in a vain search for wolves . 
How can you know that they are after elk ? No man is likely to go to the woods for small game on a day like this . 
They think the cold protects them from pursuit and capture . 
What are you going to do about it ? I am going to play a trick on them . 
You know that the sheriff , whose duty it is to be on the lookout for elk poachers , would scarcely send out a posse when the cold is so intense . 
Elk , you know , are becoming very scarce , and the law protects them . 
No man is allowed to shoot more than one elf a year , and that one on his own property . 
Now , you and I will play deputy sheriffs , and have those poachers securely in the lock up before night . 
But suppose they fight ? Then we'll fight back . 
Ralph was so aglow with joyous excitement at the thought of this adventure , that Albert had not the heart to throw cold water on his enthusiasm . 
Moreover , he was afraid of being thought cowardly by his friend if he offered objections . 
The recollection of Midshipman Easy and his daring pranks flashed through his brain , and he felt an instant desire to rival the exploits of his favorite hero . 
But , Ralph , he exclaimed , now more than ready to bear his part in the expedition , I have only shot in my gun . 
You can't shoot men with bird shot . 
Shoot men ! Are you crazy ? Why , I don't intend to shoot anybody . 
I only wish to capture them . 
My rifle is a breech loader and has six cartridges . 
He scented danger in the air , and his blood bounded through his veins . 
How do you expect to track them ? he asked , breathlessly . 
Skee tracks in the snow can be seen by a bat , born blind , answered Ralph , recklessly . 
They were now climbing up the wooded slope on the western side of the river . 
They were obliged to carry their skees , on account both of the steepness of the slope and the density of the underbrush . 
Roads and paths were invisible under the white pall of the snow , and only the facility with which they could retrace their steps saved them from the fear of going astray . 
No this silence was dead , chilling , terrible . 
As far as their eyes could reach , the monotonous colonnade of brown tree trunks , rising out of the white waste , extended in all directions . 
It reminded them of the enchanted forest in Undine , through which a man might ride forever without finding the end . 
He was lively in spite of the weather , and the faint noises of his small activities fell gratefully upon ears already ap palled by the awful silence . 
But I didn't shout , did I ? Again the report of a shot tore a great rent in the wintry stillness and rang out with sharp reverberations . 
We've got them , said Ralph , examining the lock of his rifle . 
If we don't look out , they may get us instead , grumbled Albert , who was still offended . 
Ralph stood peering into the underbrush , his eyes as wild as those of an Indian , his nostrils dilated , and all his senses intensely awake . 
His companion , who was wholly unskilled in woodcraft , could see no cause for his agitation , and feared that he was yet angry . 
He did not detect the evidences of large game in the immediate neighborhood . 
In obedience to his friend's gesture , he flung himself down on hands and knees and cautiously crept after him through the thicket . 
Quick as a flash the young hunter had drawn his knife , and , in accordance with the laws of the chase , had driven it into the breast of the animal . 
A miserable feeling of guilt stole over him . 
Ralph had , indeed , many a time hunted rabbits , hares , mountain cock , and capercaillie . 
But they had never destroyed his pleasure by arousing pity for their deaths and he had always regarded himself as being proof against sentimental emotions . 
Look here , Biceps , he said , flinging the knife into the snow , I wish I hadn't killed that bull . 
I thought we were hunting for poachers , answered Albert , dubiously and now we have been poaching ourselves . 
By Jiminy ! So we have and I never once thought of it , cried the valiant hunter . 
I am afraid we are off my father's preserves too . 
It is well the deputy sheriffs are not abroad , or we might find ourselves decorated with iron bracelets before night . 
But what did you do it for ? Well , I can't tell . 
It's in the blood , I fancy . 
The moment I saw the track and caught the wild smell , I forgot all about the poachers , and started on the scent like a hound . 
The two boys stood for some minutes looking at the dead animal , not with savage exultation , but with a dim regret . 
The blood which was gushing from the wound in the breast froze in a solid lump the very moment it touched the snow , although the cold had greatly moderated since the morning . 
I suppose we'll have to skin the fellow , remarked Ralph , lugubriously it won't do to leave that fine carcass for the wolves to celebrate Christmas with . 
All right , Albert answered , I am not much of a hand at skinning , but I'll do the best I can . 
They fell to work rather reluctantly at the unwonted task , but had not proceeded far when they perceived that they had a full day's job before them . 
I've no talent for the butcher's trade , Ralph exclaimed in disgust , dropping his knife into the snow . 
If it were not Christmas Eve to night we might take a couple of men along and shoot a dozen wolves or more . 
For there is sure to be pandemonium here before long , and a concert in G flat that'll curdle the marrow of your bones with horror . 
Thanks , replied the admirer of Midshipman Easy , striking a reckless naval attitude . 
The marrow of my bones is not so easily curdled . 
I've been on a whaling voyage , which is more than you have . 
Ralph was about to vindicate his dignity by referring to his own valiant exploits , when suddenly his keen eyes detected a slight motion in the underbrush on the slope below . 
Biceps , he said , with forced composure , those poachers are tracking us . 
What do you mean ? asked Albert , in vague alarm . 
Do you see the top of that young birch waving ? Well , what of that ! Wait and see . 
It's no good trying to escape . 
They can easily overtake us . 
The snow is the worst tell tale under the sun . 
But why should we wish to escape ? I thought we were going to catch them . 
So we were but that was before we turned poachers ourselves . 
Now those fellows will turn the tables on us take us to the sheriff and collect half the fine , which is fifty dollars , as informers . 
Je rusalem ! cried Biceps , isn't it a beautiful scrape we've gotten into ? Rather , responded his friend , coolly . 
But why meekly allow ourselves to be captured ? Why not defend ourselves ? My dear Biceps , you don't know what you are talking about . 
Those fellows don't mind putting a bullet into you , if you run . 
Now , I'd rather pay fifty dollars any day , than shoot a man even in self defence . 
But they have killed elk too . 
We heard them shoot twice . 
Suppose we play the same game on them that they intend to play on us . 
We can play informers too , then we'll at least be quits . 
Quick , now ! No persuasions were needed to make Albert bestir himself . 
The boys had taken their departure none too soon for they were scarcely five hundred yards down the declivity , when they heard behind them loud exclamations and oaths . 
over the carcass , probably meaning to appropriate it and this gave the boys an advantage , of which they were in great need . 
After a few moments they espied an open clearing which sloped steeply down toward the river . 
One more tack through alder copse and juniper jungle hard indeed , and terribly vexatious and he saw with delight the great open slope , covered with an unbroken surface of glittering snow . 
had set and the stars were flashing forth with dazzling brilliancy . 
Ralph stopped , as he reached the clearing , to give Biceps an opportunity to overtake him for Biceps , like all marine animals , moved with less dexterity on the dry land . 
Ralph , he whispered breathlessly , as he pushed himself up to his companion with a vigorous thrust of his skee staff , there are two awful chaps close behind us . 
I distinctly heard them speak . 
Fiddlesticks , said Ralph now let us see what you are made of ! Don't take my track , or you may impale me like a roast pig on a spit . 
Their calves ached , the cold air whistled in their ears , and their eyelids became stiff and their sight half obscured with the hoar frost that fringed their lashes . 
But onward they sped , keeping their balance with wonderful skill , until they reached the gentler slope which formed the banks of the great river . 
Then for the first time Ralph had an opportunity to look behind him , and he saw two moving whirls of snow darting downward , not far from his own track . 
His heart beat in his throat for those fellows had both endurance and skill , and he feared that he was no match for them . 
He had struck an exposed fence rail , which , abruptly checking his speed , had sent him flying like a rocket . 
The other poacher had barely time to change his course , so as to avoid the snag but he was unable to stop and render assistance to his fallen comrade . 
The boys , just as they were shooting out upon the ice , saw by his motions that he was hesitating whether or not he should give up the chase . 
It was a prize worth racing for ! And , moreover , there were two elks , worth twenty five dollars apiece , buried in the snow under logs . 
These also would belong to the victor ! The poacher dashed ahead , straining every nerve , and reached safely the foot of the steep declivity . 
The boys were now but a few hundred yards ahead of him . 
Hold on there , he yelled again , or I shoot ! He was not within range , but he thought he could frighten the youngsters into abandoning the race . 
The sheriff's house was but a short distance up the river . 
Its tall , black chimneys could he seen looming up against the starlit sky . 
There was no slope now to accelerate their speed . 
They had to peg away for dear life , pushing themselves forward with their skee staves , laboring like plough horses , panting , snorting , perspiring . 
Ralph turned his head once more . 
The poacher was gaining upon them there could be no doubt of it . 
He was within the range of Ralph's rifle and a sturdy fellow he was , who seemed good for a couple of miles yet . 
Should Ralph send a bullet over his head to frighten him ? No that might give the poacher an excuse for sending back a bullet with a less innocent purpose . 
They came nearer and nearer ! The church bells up on the bend were ringing in the festival . 
Five minutes more and they would be at their goal . 
Five minutes more ! Surely they had strength enough left for that small space of time . 
So had the poacher , probably ! The question was , which had the most . 
Then , with a short , sharp resonance , followed by a long reverberation , a shot rang out and a bullet whizzed past Ralph's ear . 
It was the poacher who had broken the peace . 
In the meanwhile Albert hurried on , seeing that the issue of the race depended upon him . 
Don't force me to hurt ye ! shouted the poacher , threateningly , to Ralph , taking aim once more . 
You can't , Ralph shouted back . 
At that instant sounds of sleigh bells and voices were heard , and half a dozen people , startled by the shot , were seen rushing out from the sheriff's mansion . 
Among them was Mr. Bjornerud himself , with one of his deputies . 
In the name of the law , I command you to cease , he cried , when he saw down the two figures in menacing attitudes . 
But before he could say another word , some one fell prostrate in the road before him , gasping We have shot an elk so has that man down on the ice . 
Mr. Bjornerud , making no answer , leaped over the prostrate figure , and , followed by the deputy , dashed down upon the ice . 
In the name of the law ! he shouted again , and both rifles were reluctantly lowered . 
I have shot an elk , cried Ralph , eagerly , and this man is a poacher , we heard him shoot . 
I have killed an elk , screamed the poacher , in the same moment , and so has this fellow . 
The sheriff was too astonished to speak . 
Never before , in his experience , had poachers raced for dear life to give themselves into custody . 
He feared that they were making sport of him in that case , however , he resolved to make them suffer for their audacity . 
You are my prisoners , he said , after a moment's hesitation . 
Take them to the lock up , Olsen , and handcuff them securely , he added , turning to his deputy . 
There were now a dozen men most of them guests and attendants of the sheriff's household standing in a ring about Ralph and the poacher . 
Albert , too , had scrambled to his feet and had joined his comrade . 
My father is Mr. Hoyer , of Solheim , said the boy , not without some pride in the announcement . 
What you rascal , you ! Are you trying to , play pranks on an old man ? cried the officer of the law , grasping Ralph cordially by the hand . 
You've grown to be quite a man , since I saw you last . 
Pardon me for not recognizing the son of an old neighbor . 
Allow me to introduce to you my friend , Mr. Biceps I mean , Mr. Albert Grimlund . 
Happy to make your acquaintance , Mr. Biceps Albert and now you must both come and eat the Christmas porridge with us . 
I'll send a messenger to Mr. Hoyer without delay . 
But , my dear sir , Mr. Bjornerud exclaimed , I don't see how you managed to go beyond your father's preserves . 
You know he bought of me the whole forest tract , adjoining his own on the south , about three months ago . 
So you were perfectly within your rights for your father hasn't killed an elk on his land for three years . 
If that is the case , Mr. Sheriff , said Ralph , I must beg of you to release the poor fellow who chased us . 
I don't wish any informer's fee , nor have I any desire to get him into trouble . 
I am sorry to say I can't accommodate you , Bjornerud replied . 
This man is a notorious poacher and trespasser , whom my deputies have long been tracking in vain . 
Now that I have him I shall keep him . 
There's no elk safe in Odalen so long as that rascal is at large . 
That may be but I shall then turn my informer's fee over to him , which will reduce his fine from fifty dollars to twenty five dollars . 
To encourage him to continue poaching ? Well , I confess I have a little more sympathy with poachers , since we came so near being poachers ourselves . 
The genius of cattle , represented as a beautiful maiden disfigured by a heifer's tail , which she is always trying to hide , though often unsuccessfully . 
But very little good did that do him , when he could not fix the vision , talk with it face to face , and extort the fulfilment of the three regulation wishes . 
I am probably not good enough , thought Nils . 
I know I am a selfish fellow , and cruel , too , some times , to birds and beasts . 
I suppose she won't have anything to do with me , as long as she isn't satisfied with my behavior . 
He had fully made up his mind what his wishes were to be , for he was determined not to be taken by surprise . 
Nils was not going to be caught that way . 
But he had considerable misgiving about the expediency of this last wish . 
If he had a fair renown and wisdom , might he not be able to get along without a five bladed pocket knife ? But no there was no help for it . 
Without that five bladed pocket knife neither wisdom nor fame would satisfy him . 
It would be the drop of gall in his cup of joy . 
But , though he wished his father and mother well , he could not make up his mind to forego his own precious chances on their account . 
You see Nils was by no means so good yet as he ought to be . 
He was clever enough to perceive that he had small chance of seeing the Hulder , as long as his heart was full of selfishness and envy and greed . 
It was easy enough for a rich man's son to be good , Nils thought . 
It was small credit to him if he was not envious , having never known want and never gone to bed on birch bark porridge . 
But for a poor boy not to covet all the nice things which would make life so pleasant , if he had them , seemed next to impossible . 
Still Nils kept on making good resolutions and breaking them , and then piecing them together again and breaking them anew . 
It was with this longing to repeat the few haunting notes that hummed in his brain that Nils went to the schoolmaster one day and asked him for the loan of his fiddle . 
But the schoolmaster , hearing that Nils could not play , thought his request a foolish one and refused . 
Nevertheless , that visit became an important event , and a turning point in the boy's life . 
For he was moved to confide in the schoolmaster , who was a kindly old man , and fond of clever boys and he became interested in Nils . 
Though he regarded Nils's desire to record the Nixy's strains as absurd , he offered to teach him to play . 
There was good stuff in the lad , he thought , and when he had out grown his fantastic nonsense , he might , very likely , make a good fiddler . 
Thus it came to pass that the charcoal burner's son learned to play the violin . 
He had not had half a dozen lessons before he set about imitating the Nixy's notes which he had heard in the waterfall . 
No , no , that wasn't it , either . 
It's no use , schoolmaster I shall never be able to do it ! he cried , flinging the violin on the table and rushing out of the door . 
When he returned the next day he was heartily ashamed of his impatience . 
To try to catch the Nixy's notes after half a dozen lessons was , of course , an absurdity . 
The master told him simply to banish such folly from his brain , to apply himself diligently to his scales , and not to bother himself about the Nixy . 
That seemed to be sound advice and Nils accepted it with contrition . 
He determined never to repeat his silly experiment . 
For a long while he heard nothing but the monotonous boom of the water plunging into the deep . 
It seemed to steal upon his ear unawares , and the moment he listened , with a determination to catch it , it was gone . 
But sweet it was inexpressibly sweet . 
Let the master talk as much as he liked , catch it he would and catch it he must . 
But he must acquire greater skill before he would be able to render something so delicate and elusive . 
Accordingly Nils applied himself with all his might and main to his music , in the intervals between his work . 
He was big enough now to accompany his father to the woods , and help him pile turf and earth on the heap of logs that were to be burned to charcoal . 
He grew so discouraged that he could have wept . 
He had a wild impulse to break the fiddle , and never touch another as long as he lived . 
But he knew he could not live up to any such resolution . 
The fiddle was already too dear to him to be renounced for a momentary whim . 
But it was like an unrequited affection , which brought as much sorrow as joy . 
There was so much that Nils burned to express but the fiddle refused to obey him , and screeched something utterly discordant , as it seemed , from sheer perversity . 
It occurred to Nils again , that unless the Nixy took pity on him and taught him that marvellous , airy strain he would never catch it . 
It was evidently because he was yet far from being good enough that both Hulder and Nixy eluded him . 
Sunday child though he was , there seemed to be small chance that he would ever be able to propound his three wishes . 
Only now , the third wish was no longer a five bladed pocket knife , but a violin of so fine a ring and delicate modulation that it might render the Nixy's strain . 
While these desires and fancies fought in his heart , Nils grew to be a young man and he still was , what he had always been a charcoal burner . 
His answers were always thoughtful , and betrayed a good mind . 
There was no one among the candidates for confirmation , that year , who was so well liked as Nils . 
Gentle as he was and soft spoken , there was a manly spirit in him , and that always commands respect among boys . 
He received much praise from the pastor , and no one envied him the kind words that were addressed to him for every one felt that they were deserved . 
But the thought in Nils's mind during all the ceremony in the church and in the parsonage was this Now , perhaps , I shall be good enough to win the Nixy's favor . 
Now I shall catch the wondrous strain . 
It happened about this time that the old schoolmaster died , and in his will it was found that he had bequeathed his fiddle to Nils . 
He had very little else to leave , poor fellow but if he had been a Croesus he could not have given his favorite pupil anything that would have delighted him more . 
Nils played now early and late , except when he was in the woods with his father . 
His fame went abroad through all the valley as the best fiddler in seven parishes round , and people often came from afar to hear him . 
There was a peculiar quality in his playing something strangely appealing , that brought the tears to one's eyes yet so elusive that it was impossible to repeat or describe it . 
It was rumored among the villagers that he had caught the Nixy's strain , and that it was that which touched the heart so deeply in his improvisations . 
Invitations now came to him from far and wide to play at wedding and dancing parties and funerals . 
It seemed as if his calm and gentle presence called forth all that was good in the feasters and banished whatever was evil . 
Such was his popularity that he earned more money by his fiddling in a week than his father had ever done by charcoal burning in a month . 
There was nothing mysterious in his counsel . 
All he said was as clear and rational as the day light . 
But the good folk were nevertheless inclined to attribute a higher authority to him and would desist from vice or folly for his sake , when they would not for their own sake . 
Rarely did anyone leave him disappointed , or at least without being benefited by his sympathetic advice . 
One summer , during the tourist season , a famous foreign musician came to Norway , accompanied by a rich American gentleman . 
While in his neighborhood , they heard the story of the rustic fiddler , and became naturally curious to see him . 
But Nils received them with a simple dignity which quite disarmed them . 
They had come to mock they stayed to admire . 
This peasant's artless speech , made up of ancient proverbs and shrewd common sense , and instinct with a certain sunny beneficence , impressed them wonderfully . 
And when , at their request , he played some of his improvisations , the renowned musician exclaimed that here was , indeed , a great artist lost to the world . 
In spite of the poor violin , there was a marvellously touching quality in the music something new and alluring which had never been heard before . 
But Nils himself was not aware of it . 
This was his regret his constant chase for those elusive notes that refused to be captured . 
But he consoled himself many a time with the reflection that it was the fiddle's fault , not his own . 
With a finer instrument , capable of rendering more delicate shades of sound , he might yet surprise the Nixy's strain , and record it unmistakably in black and white . 
The foreign musician and his American friend departed , but returned at the end of two weeks . 
Nils begged for time to consider , and the next day surprised them by declining the startling offer . 
He was a peasant , he said , and must remain a peasant . 
He belonged here in his native valley , where he could do good , and was happy in the belief that he was useful . 
Out in the great world , of which he knew nothing , he might indeed gather wealth , but he might lose his peace of mind , which was more precious than wealth . 
He was content with a moderate prosperity , and that he had already attained . 
He had enough , and more than enough , to satisfy his modest wants , and to provide those who were dear to him with reasonable comfort in their present condition of life . 
They made repeated efforts to persuade him , but it was all in vain . 
With smiling serenity , he told them that he had uttered his final decision . 
They then took leave of him , and a month after their departure there arrived from Germany a box addressed to Nils . 
He opened it with some trepidation , and it was found to contain a Cremona violin a genuine Stradivarius . 
The moment Nils touched the strings with the bow , a thrill of rapture went through him , the like of which he had never experienced . 
The divine sweetness and purity of the tone that vibrated through those magic chambers resounded through all his being , and made him feel happy and exalted . 
It occurred to him , while he was coaxing the intoxicating music from his instrument , that tonight would be midsummer night . 
Now was his chance to catch the Nixy's strain , for this exquisite violin would be capable of rendering the very chant of the archangels in the morning of time . 
Hugging his Stradivarius close to his breast , to protect it from the damp night air , Nils hurried through the birch woods down to the river . 
The moon was sailing calmly through a fleecy film of cloud , and a light mist hovered over the tops of the forest . 
Nils paused close to the mill , and peered intently into the rushing current but nothing appeared . 
Then he stole down to the river bank , where he seated himself on a big stone , barely out of reach of the spray , which blew in gusts from the cataract . 
He sat for a long while motionless , gazing with rapt intentness at the struggling , foaming rapids , but he saw or heard nothing . 
Then all of a sudden it seemed to him that the air began to vibrate faintly with a vague , captivating rhythm . 
Nils could hear his heart beat in his throat . 
With trembling eagerness he unwrapped the violin and raised it to his chin . 
Now , surely , there was a note . 
It belonged on the A string . 
On the E string , perhaps . 
But no , not there , either . 
Look ! What is that ? A flash , surely , through the water of a beautiful naked arm . 
Again and again he listens breathlessly , and again and again despair overwhelms him . 
It was the Nixy's strain he had been intent upon , and the wishes had lapsed into oblivion . 
Well , the people called him Wise Nils now , so , perhaps , that wish was superfluous . 
Very likely he had as much wisdom as was good for him . 
At all events , he had refused to acquire more by going abroad to acquaint himself with the affairs of the great world . 
Then the second wish yes , he could recall that . 
It was odd indeed that , too , he had refused , and what he possessed of it was as much , or even far more , than he desired . 
Nils lapsed into deep thought , as he sat there in the summer night , with the crowns of the trees above him and the brawling rapids swirling about him . 
He vowed to himself that he would never more try to catch the Nixy's strain . 
But the next day , when he seized the violin , there it was again , and , strive as he might , he could not forbear trying to catch it . 
Sometimes he thinks he has half caught it , but when he tries to play it , it is always gone . 
Such a child is therefore called a wonder child . 
It seemed a pity to send them away uncomforted , when the look and the touch cost Carina so little . 
Vain she was not , and it would have been unjust to say that she was spoiled . 
She had a tender nature , full of sympathy for sorrow and suffering . 
She was constantly giving away her shoes , her stockings , nay , even her hood and cloak , to poor little invalids , whose misery appealed to her merciful heart . 
It was of no use to scold her you could no more prevent a stream from flowing than Carina from giving . 
It was a spontaneous yielding to an impulse that was too strong to be resisted . 
Her unusual goodness gave him a pang more painful than ever the bad behavior of her brothers had occasioned . 
On the other hand , it delighted him to see her do anything that ordinary children did . 
He was charmed if she could be induced to take part in a noisy romp , play tag , or dress her dolls . 
But there followed usually after each outbreak of natural mirth a shy withdrawal into herself , a resolute and quiet retirement , as if she , were a trifle ashamed of her gayety . 
He called Carina to him , remonstrated kindly with her , and forbade her henceforth to see the people who came to her for the purpose of being cured . 
But it distressed him greatly to see how reluctantly she consented to obey him . 
When Carina awoke the morning after this promise had been extorted from her , she heard the dogs barking furiously in the yard below . 
Her elder sister , Agnes , was standing half dressed before the mirror , holding the end of one blond braid between her teeth , while tying the other with a pink ribbon . 
Seeing that Carina was awake , she gave her a nod in the glass , and , removing her braid , observed that there evidently were sick pilgrims under the window . 
She could sympathize with Sultan and Hector , she averred , in their dislike of pilgrims . 
Oh , I wish they would not come ! sighed Carina . 
It will be so hard for me to send them away . 
I thought you liked curing people , exclaimed Agnes . 
I do , sister , but papa has made me promise never to do it again . 
She arose and began to dress , her sister assisting her , chatting all the while like a gay little chirruping bird that neither gets nor expects an answer . 
Carina had just completed her simple toilet when Guro , the chamber maid , entered , and announced that there were some sick folk below who wished to see the wonder child . 
Tell them I cannot see them , answered Carina , with a tremulous voice papa does not permit me . 
Don't ! Don't tell her that , interposed Agnes , motioning to the girl to begone . 
Don't you see it is hard enough for her already ? There was something in the air , as the two sisters descended the stairs hand in hand , which foreboded calamity . 
He had repeated this announcement again and again , and he was now very much annoyed at his apparent powerlessness to protect his child from further imposition . 
Loud and angry speech was heard in his office , and a noise as if the furniture were being knocked about . 
The two little girls remained standing on the stairs , each gazing at the other's frightened face . 
Then there was a great bang , and a stalwart , elderly sailor came tumbling head foremost out into the hall . 
His cap was flung after him through the crack of the door . 
The sailor stood for a while bewildered , leaning against the wall then he stooped slowly and picked up his cap . 
But the moment he caught sight of Carina his embarrassment vanished , and his rough features were illuminated with an intense emotion . 
Come , little miss , and help me , he cried , in a hoarse , imploring whisper . 
Halvor , my son he is the only one God gave me he is sick he is going to die , miss , unless you take pity on him . 
Where is he ? asked Carina . 
He's down in the boat , miss , at the pier . 
But I'll carry him up to you , if you like . 
We have been rowing half the night in the cold , and he is very low . 
No , no you mustn't bring him here , said Agnes , seeing by Carina's face that she was on the point of yielding . 
Father would be so angry . 
He may kill me if he likes , exclaimed the sailor , wildly . 
It doesn't matter to me . 
But , you know , I shouldn't dare , on papa's account , to have you bring him here , began Carina , struggling with her tears . 
Ah , yes ! Then you will go to him . 
God bless you for that ! cried the poor man , with agonized eagerness . 
Carina made no outcry , and was not in the least afraid . 
She felt herself resting in two strong arms , warmly wrapped and borne away at a great speed over the snow . 
But Agnes , seeing her sister vanish in that sudden fashion , gave a scream which called her father to the door . 
What has happened ? he asked . 
Where is Carina ? That dreadful Atle Pilot took her and ran away with her . 
Ran away with her ? cried the pastor in alarm . 
How ? Where ? Down to the pier . 
He saw Atle Pilot scarcely fifty feet in advance of him , and shouted to him at the top of his voice . 
But the sailor only redoubled his speed , and darted out upon the pier , hugging tightly to his breast the precious burden he carried . 
So blindly did he rush ahead that the pastor expected to see him plunge headlong into the icy waves . 
He stood for an instant irresolute , staring down into a boat which lay moored to the end of the pier . 
What he saw resembled a big bundle , consisting of a sheepskin coat and a couple of horse blankets . 
Halvor , he cried , with a voice that shook with emotion , I have brought her . 
There was presently a vague movement under the horse blankets , and after a minute's struggle a pale yellowish face became visible . 
It was a young face the face of a boy of fifteen or sixteen . 
He paused , and turned his pathetically bewildered face toward the pastor . 
You wouldn't take him from me , parson , he stammered , helplessly no , you wouldn't . 
He's the only one I've got . 
I don't take him from you , the parson thundered , wrathfully . 
I'll do your little girl no harm . 
Only let her lay her blessed hands upon my poor boy's head , and he will be well . 
I have told you no , man , and I must put a stop to this stupid idolatry , which will ruin my child , and do you no good . 
Give her back to me , I say , at once . 
The pastor held out his hand to receive Carina , who stared at him with large pleading eyes out of the grizzly wolf skin coat . 
Be good to him , papa , she begged . 
No , child no parleying now come instantly . 
And he seized her by main force , and tore her out of the pilot's arms . 
The weather was stormy , and tidings of shipwreck and calamity filled the air . 
Scarcely a visitor came to the parsonage who had not some tale of woe to relate . 
The pastor , who was usually so gentle and cheerful , wore a dismal face , and it was easy to see that something was weighing on his mind . 
May God show you the same mercy on the Judgment Day as you have shown to me ! These words rang constantly in his ears by night and by day . 
He had done what was demanded of him by laws human and divine . 
He had nothing to reproach himself for . 
In the depth of his heart there was a still small voice which told him that , say what he might , he had acted cruelly . 
And his pastor received him with wrath , nay , with blows , and sent him away uncomforted . 
It was a hideous picture indeed , and Mr. Holt would have given years of his life to be rid of it . 
It was on the sixth day after Atle's visit that the pastor , sitting alone in his study , called Carina to him . 
He had scarcely seen her during the last six days , or at least talked with her . 
Her sweet innocent spirit would banish the shadows that darkened his soul . 
Carina , he said , in his old affectionate way , papa wants to see you . 
Come here and let me talk a little with you . 
But could he trust his eyes ? Carina , who formerly had run so eagerly into his arms , stood hesitating , as if she hoped to be excused . 
Mr. Holt closed the door silently , flung himself into a chair , and groaned . 
That was a blow from where he had least expected it . 
The child had judged him and found him wanting . 
He had erred indeed and there was no hope that any chance would come to him to remedy the wrong . 
The twilight had deepened into darkness while he revolved this trouble in his mind . 
The night was stormy , and the limbs of the trees without were continually knocking and bumping against the walls of the house . 
The rusty weather vane on the roof whined and screamed , and every now and then the sleet dashed against the window panes like a handful of shot . 
The pastor sat listening mournfully to this tempestuous commotion . 
He seated himself again in his easy chair before the stove , which spread a dim light from its draught hole into the surrounding gloom . 
While he sat thus absorbed in his meditations , he was startled at the sound of something resembling a sob . 
He arose to strike a light , but found that his match safe was empty . 
But what was that ? A step without , surely , and the groping of hands for the door knob . 
Who is there ? cried the pastor , with a shivering uneasiness . 
He sprang forward and opened the door . 
A broad figure , surmounted by a sou'wester , loomed up in the dark . 
What do you want ? asked Mr. Holt , with forced calmness . 
Sail across the fjord on a night like this ? he exclaimed . 
That's what I ask you . 
And the boy is dying , you say ? Can't last till morning . 
And has he asked for the sacrament ? The pilot stepped across the threshold and entered the room . 
I will come , he said , with solemn resolution . 
Sit down till I get ready . 
He had expected some expression of gratification or thanks , for Atle well knew what he had asked . 
It was his life the pastor risked , but this time in his calling as a physician , not of bodies , but of souls . 
So he left tender messages for her , and , summoning Atle , plunged out into the storm . 
A servant walked before him with a lantern , and lighted the way down to the pier , where the boat lay tossing upon the waves . 
But , man , cried the pastor , seeing that the boat was empty , where are your boatmen ? I am my own boatman , answered Atle , gloomily . 
You can hold the sheet , I the tiller . 
Mr. Holt was ashamed of retiring now , when he had given his word . 
But it was with a sinking heart that he stepped into the frail skiff , which seemed scarcely more than a nutshell upon the tempestuous deep . 
To venture out into this roaring darkness , with no beacon to guide them , and scarcely a landmark discernible , was indeed to tempt Providence . 
To his eyes the sky looked black as ink , except for a dark blue unearthly shimmer that now and then flared up from the north , trembled , and vanished . 
By this unsteady illumination it was possible to catch a momentary glimpse of a head , and a peak , and the outline of a mountain . 
The small sail was double reefed , yet the boat careened so heavily that the water broke over the gunwale . 
Then , with a fierce cutting distinctness , came the command out of the dark . 
Pull out the reefs ! Are you crazy , man ? shouted the pastor . 
Do you want to sail straight into eternity ? Pull out the reefs ! The command was repeated with wrathful emphasis . 
Then we are dead men , both you and I. So we are , parson dead men . 
My son lies dead at home , though you might have saved him . 
So , now , parson , we are quits . 
With a fierce laugh he rose up , and still holding the tiller , stretched his hand to tear out the reefs . 
But at that instant , just as a quivering shimmer broke across the sky , something rose up from under the thwart and stood between them . 
Atle started back with a hoarse scream . 
In Heaven's name , child ! he cried . 
He only knew that her dear little head rested close to his heart , and that her yellow hair blew across his face . 
I wanted to save that poor boy , papa , were the only words that met his ears . 
But he needed no more to explain the mystery . 
Even if this boy was sick unto death , she might perhaps cure him , and make up for her father's harshness . 
It was a miracle that she got safely into the boat , and stowed herself away snugly under the stern thwart . 
The clearing in the north gradually spread over the sky , and the storm abated . 
Soon they had the shore in view , and the lights of the fishermen's cottages gleamed along the beach of the headland . 
Presently they ran into smoother water a star or two flashed forth , and wide blue expanses appeared here and there on the vault of the sky . 
They spied the red lanterns marking the wharf , about which a multitude of boats lay , moored to stakes , and with three skilful tacks Atle made the harbor . 
It was here , standing on the pier , amid the swash and swirl of surging waters , that the pilot seized Carina's tiny hand in his big and rough one . 
But Carina did not hear what he said , for she lay sweetly sleeping in her father's arms . 
To be a Norseman appears to the Norse boy a claim to distinction . 
, and remoteness from all the glittering temptations that beset the nations in whom He takes a less paternal interest . 
Thus at least reasons , in a dim way , the small boy in Norway thus he is taught to reason by his parents and instructors . 
The delighted pride of this small band made them an object of envy to all the rest of the school . 
Hakon , when his name was mentioned , felt as if he had added a yard to his height . 
But he minded that very little all great men , he reflected , have had to suffer for their country . 
With eleven of his classmates , who were about his own age and as Norse as himself , he formed a brotherhood which was called The Sons of the Vikings . 
They gave each other tremendously bloody surnames , in the style of the Sagas names that reeked with gore and heroism . 
Hakon himself assumed the pleasing appellation Skull splitter , and his classmate Frithjof Ronning was dubbed Vargr i Veum , which means Wolf in the Temple . 
One Son of the Vikings was known as Ironbeard , another as Erling the Lop Sided , a third as Thore the Hound , a fourth as Aslak Stone Skull . 
But a serious difficulty , which came near disrupting the brotherhood , arose over these very names . 
, and there was a general demand that he should give it up and allow all to draw lots for it . 
But this Hakon stoutly refused to do and declared that if anyone wanted his name he would have to fight for it , in good old Norse fashion . 
, that he proposed that they should swear eternal friendship and foster brotherhood , and seal their compact , according to Norse custom , by the ceremony called Mingling of Blood . 
It is needless to say that this seemed to all the boys a most delightful proposition and they entered upon the august rite with a deep sense of its solemnity . 
First a piece of sod , about twelve feet square , was carefully raised upon wooden stakes representing spears , so as to form a green roof over the foster brothers . 
Hakon grew paler and paler , and would have burst into tears , if he had not been a Son of the Vikings . 
It would have been a relief to him , for the moment , not to have been a Son of the Vikings . 
For he was terribly frightened , and thought surely he was going to bleed to death . 
proposed that they should carry Hakon to the doctor , no one made any objection . 
But the doctor unhappily lived so far away that Hakon might die before he got there . 
Well , then , said Wolf in the Temple , let us take him to old Witch Martha . 
She can stanch blood and do lots of other queer things . 
Yes , and that is much more Norse , too , suggested Thore the Hound wise women learned physic and bandaged wounds in the olden time . 
he'll never get to Witch Martha alive if he is to walk . 
This suggestion was favorably received , the boys set to work with a will , and in a few minutes had put together a litter of green twigs and branches . 
He appeared to himself a brave Norse warrior who was being carried by his comrades from the battle field , where he had greatly distinguished himself . 
And now to be going , to the witch who , by magic rhymes and incantations , was to stanch the ebbing stream of his life what could be more delightful ? II . 
Witch Martha lived in a small lonely cottage down by the river . 
Very few people ever went to see her in the day time but at night she often had visitors . 
She was an old weather beaten woman with a deeply wrinkled , smoky brown face , and small shrewd black eyes . 
Martha was stooping at the hearth , blowing and puffing at the fire under her coffee pot , when the Sons of the Vikings knocked at the door . 
she was not a little astonished to see the Captain's son , Frithjof Ronning , staring up at her with an anxious face . 
What cost thou want , lad ? she asked , gruffly thou hast gone astray surely , and I'll show thee the way home . 
I am Wolf in the Temple , began Frithjof , thrusting out his chest , and raising his head proudly . 
Dear me , you don't say so ! exclaimed Martha . 
My comrade and foster brother Skull Splitter has been wounded and I want thee , old crone , to stanch his blood before he bleeds to death . 
Dear , dear me , how very strange ! ejaculated the Witch , and shook her aged head . 
She had been accustomed to extraordinary requests but the language of this boy struck her as being something of the queerest she had yet heard . 
Where is thy Skull Splitter , lad ? she asked , looking at him dubiously . 
Right here in the underbrush , Wolf in the Temple retorted , gallantly stir thy aged stumps now , and thou shalt be right royally rewarded . 
He had learned from Walter Scott's romances that this was the proper way to address inferiors , and he prided himself not a little on his jaunty condescension . 
By this threat Wolf in the Temple's courage was sadly shaken . 
He knew Martha's reputation as a witch , and had no desire to test in his own person whether rumor belied her . 
The poor Skull Splitter was now as white as a sheet , and the drowsiness of his eyes and the laxness of his features showed that help came none too early . 
Martha , in hot haste , grabbed a bag of herbs , thrust it into a pot of warm water , and clapped it on the wound . 
I conjure with spirits of earth and air That make the wind sigh and cry in despair I conjure by him within sevenfold rings That sits and broods at the roots of things . 
I conjure by him who healeth strife , Who plants and waters the germs of life . 
She sang the last two lines with sudden energy and when she removed her hand from the wound , the blood had ceased to flow . 
The poor Skull Splitter was sleeping soundly and his friends , shivering a little with mysterious fears , marched up and down whispering to one another . 
They were all steeped to the core in old Norse heroism and they enjoyed the situation hugely . 
All the life about them was half blotted out they saw it but dimly . 
That light of youthful romance , which never was on sea or land , transformed all the common things that met their vision into something strange and wonderful . 
tossed her , with magnificent superciliousness , his purse , which contained six cents . 
But she flung it back at him with such force that he had to dodge with more adroitness than dignity . 
I'll get my claws into thee some day , thou foolish lad , she said , lifting her lean vulture like hand with a threatening gesture . 
And the Sons of the Vikings , taking the hint , shouldered the litter once more , and reached Skull Splitter's home in time for supper . 
The Sons of the Vikings were much troubled . 
Every heroic deed which they plotted had this little disadvantage , that they were in danger of going to jail for it . 
The precious vacation was slipping away , and as yet they had accomplished nothing that could at all be called heroic . 
It was while the brotherhood was lamenting this fact that Wolf in the Temple had a brilliant idea . 
He procured his father's permission to invite his eleven companions to spend a day and a night at the Ronning saeter , or mountain dairy , far up in the highlands . 
The only condition Mr. Ronning made was that they were to be accompanied by his man , Brumle Knute , who was to be responsible for their safety . 
But the boys determined privately to make Brumle Knute their prisoner , in case he showed any disposition to spoil their sport . 
There , far away from sheriffs and pastors and maternal supervision , they might perhaps find the long desired chance of performing their heroic deed . 
It was a beautiful morning early in August that the boys started from Strandholm , Mr. Ronning's estate , accompanied by Brumle Knute . 
The latter was a middle aged , round shouldered peasant , who had the habit of always talking to himself . 
To look at him you would have supposed that he was a rough and stupid fellow who would have quite enough to do in looking after himself . 
But the fact was , that Brumle Knute was the best shot , the best climber and altogether the most keen eyed hunter in the whole valley . 
The Sons of the Vikings were all mounted on ponies and Wolf in the Temple , who had been elected chieftain , led the troop . 
At his side rode Skull Splitter , who was yet a trifle pale after his blood letting , but brimming over with ambition to distinguish himself . 
Loosely attached about their necks and flying in the wind , these could easily serve for scarlet or purple cloaks wrought on Syrian looms . 
Most of the boys carried also wooden swords and shields , and the chief had a long loor or Alpine horn . 
Only the valiant Ironbeard , whose father was a military man , had a real sword and a real scabbard into the bargain . 
Wolf in the Temple , and Erling the Lop Sided , had each an old fowling piece and Brumle Knute carried a double barrelled rifle . 
For an hour or more the procession rode , single file , up the steep and rugged mountain paths but the boys were all in high spirits and enjoyed themselves hugely . 
The mere fact that they were Vikings , on a daring foraging expedition into a neighboring kingdom , imparted a wonderful zest to everything they did and said . 
It might be foolish , but it was on that account none the less delightful . 
They sent out scouts to watch for the approach of an imaginary enemy they had secret pass words and signs they swore by Thor's hammer and by Odin's eye . 
They talked appalling nonsense to each other with a delicious sentiment of its awful blood curdling character . 
It was about noon when they reached the Strandholm saeter , which consisted of three turf thatched log cabins or chalets , surrounded by a green inclosure of half a dozen acres . 
But what are we to do with her when we have caught her ? asked the Skull Splitter , innocently . 
We will keep her imprisoned in the empty saeter hut , Wolf in the Temple responded . 
Now , are you ready ? We'll leave the horses here on the croft , until our return . 
The question now was to elude Brumle Knute's vigilance for the Sons of the Vikings had good reasons for fearing that he might interfere with their enterprise . 
They therefore waited until Brumle knute was invited by the dairymaid to sit down to dinner . 
Behind these piles of stone the boys hid themselves , keeping a watchful eye on the road and waiting for their chief's signal to pounce upon unwary travellers . 
They lay for about fifteen minutes in expectant silence , and were on the point of losing their patience . 
Look here , Wolf in the Temple , cried Erling the Lop Sided , you may think this is fun , but I don't . 
Let us take the raft there and go fishing . 
The tarn is simply crowded with perch and bass . 
Hold your disrespectful tongue , whispered the chief , warningly , or I'll discipline you so you'll remember it till your dying day . 
Ho , ho ! laughed the rebel , jeeringly big words and fat pork don't stick in the throat . 
Wait till I get you alone and we shall see who'll be disciplined . 
The former was clad in scarlet bodice , a black embroidered skirt , and a snowy white kerchief was tied about her head . 
Her blonde hair hung in golden profusion down over her back and shoulders . 
The little girl was city clad , and had a sweet and appealing face . 
She was chattering guilelessly with her companion , asking more questions than she could possibly expect to have answered . 
Nearer and nearer they came to the great stone heaps , dreaming of no harm . 
Wolf in the Temple , who led the band , seized the horse by the bridle , and flourishing his sword threateningly , addressed the frightened peasant lass . 
Nay , Gunbjor answered , as soon as she could find her voice , this is the Deacon's Maggie , as is going to the saeter with me to spend Sunday . 
She cannot proceed on her way , said the chieftain , decisively , she is my prisoner . 
She recognized in Erling the Lop Sided the well known features of the parson's son and as soon as she had made this discovery she had no great difficulty in identifying the rest . 
Never you fear , pet , she said to the child in her lap , these be bad boys as want to frighten us . 
I'll give them a switching if they don't look out . 
You keep yer hands off the child , or I'll give you ten pounds of thrashing , cried Gunbjor , angrily . 
She shall be treated with the respect due to her rank , Wolf in the Temple proceeded , loftily . 
I give King Bjorn the Victorious three moons in which to bring me the ransom . 
Vikings ! cried the chief , lay hands on her ! Tear her from the saddle ! She has defied us ! She deserves no mercy . 
With a tremendous yell the boys rushed forward , brandishing their swords above their heads , and pulled Gunbjor from the saddle . 
The fact was I cannot disguise it within five minutes the whole valiant band of the Sons of the Vikings were routed by that terrible switch , wielded by the intrepid Gunbjor . 
Good by , lads , she said , nodding her head at them over her shoulder ye needn't be afraid . 
I won't tell on you . 
To have been routed by a woman was a terrible humiliation to the valiant Sons of the Vikings . 
They were silent and moody during the evening , and sat staring into the big bonfire on the saeter green with stern and melancholy features . 
They had suffered defeat in battle , and it behooved them to avenge it . 
Instantly they scrambled out of their alcoves , pulled on their coats and trousers and noiselessly stole out into the night . 
The river wound like a huge , blood red serpent through the mountain pastures , and the snow hooded peaks blazed with fiery splendor . 
The boys were quite stunned at the sight of such magnificence , and stood for some minutes gazing at the landscape , before giving heed to the summons of the chief . 
Life without honor , comrades , he said , severely , life without honor is nothing . 
Hear , hear ! cried Ironbeard good for you , old man ! Silence ! thundered Wolf in the Temple , I must beg the gentlemen to observe the proprieties . 
This tremendous phrase rarely failed to restore order , and the flippant Ironbeard was duly rebuked by the glances of displeasure which met him on all sides . 
But in the meanwhile the chief had lost the thread of his speech and could not recover it . 
Vikings , he resumed , clearing his throat vehemently , we have been that is to say we have sustained A thrashing , supplied the innocent Skull Splitter . 
But the awful stare which was fixed upon him convinced him that he had made a mistake and he shrunk into an abashed silence . 
We must do something to retrieve our honor , continued the chief , earnestly we must take steps to to get upon our legs again , he finished , blushing with embarrassment . 
I would suggest that we get upon our legs first , and take the steps afterward , remarked the flippant Ironbeard , with a sly wink at Thore the Hound . 
Then , when we return with a bear skin or two , our honor will be all right no one will dare laugh at us . 
The brave boy hunters will be the admiration and pride of the whole valley . 
Now , comrades , commanded the chief , with a flourish of his sword , get to bed quickly . 
I'll call you at four o'clock we'll then start to chase the monarch of the mountains . 
He snorted a little and rubbed imaginary cobwebs from his face but soon lapsed again into a deep , snoring unconsciousness . 
The faces of the Sons of the Vikings grew very serious as they started out on this dangerous expedition . 
He carried his fowling piece , loaded with shot , in his right hand , and a powder horn and other equipments for the chase were flung across his shoulder . 
Erling the Lop Sided was similarly armed , and Ironbeard , glorying in a real sword , unsheathed it every minute and let it flash in the sun . 
The air was fresh and cool and it seemed a luxury to breathe it . 
It entered the lungs in a pure , vivifying stream like an elixir of life , and sent the blood dancing through the veins . 
Everyone had to test its smell and they all agreed that it did have a singular flavor , though its taste was irreproachable . 
It smells like a menagerie , said the Skull Splitter , as he handed it to Thore the Hound . 
But the bread and the biscuit smell just the same , said Thore the Hound in fact , it is the air that smells like a menagerie . 
Boys , cried Wolf in the Temple , do you see that track in the mud ? Yes it is the track of a barefooted man , suggested the innocent Skull Splitter . 
Boys , said Erling , looking up with an excited face , a she bear with one or two cubs has been here within a few minutes . 
This is her drinking place , said Ironbeard the tracks are many and well worn if she hasn't been here this morning , she is sure to come before long . 
We are in luck indeed , Wolf in the Temple observed , coolly we needn't go far for our bear . 
He will be coming for us . 
It is Brumle Knute who is calling us , said Thore the Hound . 
The dairymaid must have released him . 
Shall we answer ? Never , cried the chief , proudly I forbid you to answer . 
Here we have our heroic deed in sight , and I want no one to spoil it . 
If there is a coward among us , let him take to his heels no one shall detain him . 
There were perhaps several who would have liked to accept the invitation but no one did . 
Skull Splitter , by way of diversion , plumped backward into the brook , and sat down in the cool pool up to his waist . 
But nobody laughed at his mishap because they had their minds full of more serious thoughts . 
Wolf in the Temple , who had climbed up on a big moss grown boulder , stood , gun in hand , and peered in among the bushes . 
Boys , he whispered , drop down on your bellies quick . 
All , crowding behind a rock , obeyed , pushing themselves into position with hands and feet . 
It was the prettiest little bear cub that ever woke on its mossy lair in the woods . 
Now it came shuffling down in a boozy way to take its morning bath . 
It seemed but half awake and Skull Splitter imagined that it was a trifle cross , because its mother had waked it too early . 
Evidently it had made no toilet as yet , for bits of moss were sticking in its hair and it yawned once or twice , and shook its head disgustedly . 
Skull Splitter knew so well that feeling and could sympathize with the poor young cub . 
But Wolf in the Temple , who watched it no less intently , was filled with quite different emotions . 
Here was his heroic deed , for which he had hungered so long . 
To shoot a bear that was a deed worthy of a Norseman . 
One step more then two and then up rose the bear cub on its hind legs and rubbed its eyes with its paws . 
Now he had a clean shot now or never and pulling the trigger Wolf in the Temple blazed away and sent a handful of shot into the carcass of the poor little bear . 
Up jumped all the Sons of the Vikings from behind their stones , and , with a shout of triumph , ran up the path to where the cub was lying . 
It had rolled itself up into a brown ball , and whimpered like a child in pain . 
But at that very moment there came an ominous growl out of the underbrush , and a crackling and creaking of branches was heard which made the hearts of the boys stand still . 
Erling , cried Wolf in the Temple , hand me your gun , and load mine for me as quick as you can . 
The words were scarcely out of his mouth when the head of a big brown she bear became visible among the bushes . 
Quite ignorant as he was of the nature of bears , he allowed his compassion to get the better of his judgment . 
It seemed such a pity that the poor little beast should lie there and suffer with one eye put out and forty or fifty bits of lead distributed through its body . 
It would be much more merciful to put it out of its misery altogether . 
It was a random , unskilful shot , which was about equally shared by the cub and its mother . 
And the latter was not in a mood to be trifled with . 
With an angry roar she rose on her hind legs and advanced against the unhappy Skull Splitter with two uplifted paws . 
In another moment she would give him one of her vigorous left handers , which would probably pacify him forever . 
Ironbeard gave a scream of terror and Thore the Hound broke down an alder sapling in his excitement . 
But Wolf in the Temple , remembering that he had sworn foster brotherhood with this brave and foolish little lad , thought that now was the time to show his heroism . 
Here it was no longer play , but dead earnest . 
She turned suddenly toward her new assailant , growling savagely , and scratched her ear with her paw . 
She glared with her small bloodshot eyes now at the one , now at the other boy , as if in doubt which she would tackle first . 
It was an awful moment one or the other might have saved himself by flight , but each was determined to stand his ground . 
Vikings could die , but never flee . 
With a furious growl the she bear started toward her last assailant , lifting her terrible paw . 
Ironbeard backed a few steps , pointing his gun before him and with benumbing force the paw descended upon the gun barrel , striking it out of his hands . 
If the bear renewed the attack now , he was utterly defenceless . 
He was not exactly afraid , but he was numb all over . 
It seemed to matter little what became of him . 
But now a strange thing happened . 
But in this diversion she was interrupted by Wolf in the Temple , who hammered away again at her head with the heavy end of his weapon . 
Again she rose , and presented two rows of white teeth which looked as if they meant business . 
It was the chief's turn now to meet his fate and it was the more serious because his helper was disarmed and could give him no assistance . 
In the same instant the huge brown bear tumbled forward , rolled over , with a gasping growl , and was dead . 
But Brumle Knute , we only wanted to shoot the little bear , protested Wolf in the Temple . 
That may be , Brumle Knute replied but the big bears , they are a curiously unreasonable lot they are apt to get mad when you fire at their little ones . 
Next time you must recollect to take the big bear into account . 
I need not tell you that the Sons of the Vikings became great heroes when the rumor of their bear hunt was noised abroad through the valley . 
But , for all that , they determined to disband their brotherhood . 
We are not so strong as they were , nor so hardy . 
When we mingle blood , we have to send for a surgeon . 
If we steal princesses we may go to jail for it or or well never mind what else may happen . 
Heroism isn't appreciated as once it was in this country and I , for one , won't try to be a hero any more . 
I resign my chieftainship now , when I can do it with credit . 
Let us all make our bows of adieu as bear hunters and if we don't do anything more in the heroic line it is not because we can't , but because we won't . 
PAUL JESPERSEN'S MASQUERADE There was great excitement in the little Norse town , Bumlebro , because there was going to be a masquerade . 
Everybody was busy inventing the character which he was to represent , and the costume in which he was to represent it . 
The pleasure of his company ! Think of it ! He felt so flattered that he blushed to the tips of his ears . 
What character would you advise me to select , Mr. Jespersen ? she inquired , sweetly . 
My sister Hanna , you know , is going to be Morning , so I can't be that , and it seems to me Morning would have suited me just lovely . 
Go as Beauty , suggested Mr. Jespersen , blushing at the thought of his audacity . 
So I will , Mr. Jespersen , she answered , laughing , if you will go as the Beast . 
I shall be delighted , Miss Clara , he said , beaming with pleasure . 
If you will be my Beauty , I'll be your Beast . 
Miss Clara did not know exactly how to take this , and was rather absent minded during the rest of the interview . 
When Paul got home he began at once to ponder upon his character as Beast , and particularly as Miss Clara's Beast . 
He had never imagined that he would make such a successful Beast . 
The skin was laced with thin leather thongs from the neck down , but the long , shaggy fur made the lacing invisible . 
Paul Jespersen practiced ursine behavior before the looking glass for about half an hour . 
Then , being uncomfortably warm , he started down stairs , and determined to walk to the Association Hall . 
He chuckled to himself at the thought of the sensation he would make , if he should happen to meet anybody on the road . 
There was , in fact , but one carriage on runners in the town , and that was already engaged by half a dozen parties . 
There was not a soul to be seen , except an old beggar woman who was hobbling along , supporting herself with two sticks . 
Paul darted , as quickly as his unwieldly bulk would allow , into the middle of the street . 
He enjoyed intensely the fun of walking abroad in such a monstrous guise . 
He contemplated with boyish satisfaction his shadow which stretched , long and black and horrible , across the snow . 
It was a bit slippery , and he had to manoeuvre carefully in order to keep right side up . 
Presently he caught up with the beggar woman . 
Good evening ! he said . 
Hello ! thought Paul Jespersen . 
Now look out for trouble . 
He felt anything but hilarious when he saw the pack of angry dogs dancing and leaping about him , barking in a wildly discordant chorus . 
Why , Hector , you fool , don't you know me ? he said , coaxingly , to the judge's mastiff . 
He had scarcely recovered from this surprise when he heard a sharp report , and a bullet whizzed away over his head , after having neatly put a hole through the right ear . 
Paul concluded , with reason , that things were getting serious . 
It so happened that Paul selected the house of two middle aged milliners for this experiment . 
Before he had time to pick himself up the door was burst open and a great hairy monster sprang into the room . 
Mercy upon us ! cried Jemina . 
It is the devil ! But now came the worst of it all . 
The bear put his paw on his heart , and with the politest bow in the world , remarked Pardon me , ladies , if I intrude . 
Police ! police ! someone shouted out of the window of the adjoining room . 
Police ! Now , with all due respect for the officers of the law , Paul Jespersen had no desire to meet them at the present moment . 
Hearing the cry for police repeated , Paul looked about him for some means of escape . 
It occurred to him that he had seen a ladder in the hall leading up to the loft . 
There he could easily hide himself until the crowd had dispersed . 
With the utmost caution he crawled along the roof tree , trembling lest he should be discovered by some lynx eyed villain in the throng of his pursuers . 
Happily , the broad brick chimney afforded him some shelter , of which he was quick to take advantage . 
The people , too , scattered , and only a few patient loiterers hung about the street door , hoping for fresh developments . 
It seemed useless to Paul to wait until these provoking fellows should take themselves away . 
They were obviously prepared to make a night of it , and time was no object to them . 
It was then that Paul , in his despair , resolved upon a daring stratagem . 
Mr. Broby's house was in the same block as that of the Misses Hansen , only it was at the other end of the block . 
He did not deliberate long before testing the practicability of this plan . 
The tanner Thoresen's house was reached without accident , although he barely escaped being detected by a small boy who was amusing himself throwing snow balls at the chimney . 
It was a slow and wearisome mode of locomotion pushing himself forward on his belly but , as long as the streets were deserted , it was a pretty safe one . 
He gave a start whenever he heard a dog bark for the echoes of the ear splitting concert they had given him were yet ringing in his brain . 
It was no joke being a bear , he thought , and if he had suspected that it was such a serious business , he would not so rashly have undertaken it . 
But now there was no way of getting out of it for he had nothing on but his underclothes under the bear skin . 
At last he reached the Broby house , and drew a sigh of relief at the thought that he was now at the end of his journey . 
He looked about him for a trap door by which he could descend into the interior , but could find none . 
There was an inch of snow on the roof , glazed with frost and if there was a trap door , it was securely hidden . 
To jump or slide down was out of the question , for he would , in that case , risk breaking his neck . 
If he cried for help , the groom , who was always ready with his gun , might take a fancy to shoot at him and that would be still more unpleasant . 
It was a most embarrassing situation . 
Paul's eyes fell upon a chimney and the thought flashed through his head that there was the solution of the difficulty . 
He observed that no smoke was coming out of it , so that he would run no risk of being converted into smoked ham during the descent . 
He looked down through the long , black tunnel . 
It was a great , spacious , old fashioned chimney , and abundantly wide enough for his purpose . 
A pleasant sound of laughter and merry voices came to him from the kitchen below . 
It was evident the girls were having a frolic . 
So , without further ado , Paul Jespersen stuffed his great hairy bulk into the chimney and proceeded to let himself down . 
There were notches and iron rings in the brick wall , evidently put there for the convenience of the chimney sweeps and he found his task easier than he had anticipated . 
The soot , to be sure , blinded his eyes , but where there was nothing to be seen , that was no serious disadvantage . 
Chimney sweep at this time of night ! Paul , bracing himself against the walls , looked down and saw a cluster of anxious faces all gazing up toward him . 
A chorus of terrified screams greeted him . 
One girl fainted , one leaped up on a table , and the rest made for the door . 
And there sat poor Paul , in the ashes on the hearth , utterly bewildered by the consternation he had occasioned . 
He picked himself up by and by , rubbed the soot out of his eyes with the backs of his paws , and crawled out upon the floor . 
He had just managed to raise himself upon his hind legs , when an awful apparition became visible in the door , holding a candle . 
It was now Paul's turn to be frightened . 
The person who stood before him bore a close resemblance to the devil . 
What is all this racket about ? he cried , in a tone of authority . 
Paul felt instantly relieved , for the voice was that of his revered chief , Mr. Broby , who , he now recollected , was to figure at the masquerade as Mephistopheles . 
Behind him peeped forth the faces of his two daughters , one as Morning and the other as Spring . 
May I ask what is the cause of this unseemly noise ? repeated Mr. Broby , advancing to the middle of the room . 
The light of his candle now fell upon the huge bear whom , after a slight start , he recognized as a masker . 
And it is you who have frightened my servants half out of their wits , Jespersen ? said Mr. Broby , laughing . 
He tumbled down through the chimney , sir , declared the cook , who had half recovered from her fright . 
Well , said Mr. Broby , with another laugh , I admit that was a trifle unconventional . 
Next time you call , Jespersen , you must come through the door . 
He thought Jespersen had chosen to play a practical joke on the servants , and , though he did not exactly like it , he was in no mood for scolding . 
And Paul was not enough of an expert to know the difference . 
He had fixed his eyes admiringly on a coal black , four year old mare , a mere colt , which brought up the rear of the procession . 
Though he knew it was time for dinner he could not tear himself away , but followed the procession up one street and down another , until it stopped at the horse market . 
There a lot of jockeys and coarse looking dealers were on hand and an opportunity was afforded them to try the horses before the auction began . 
They forced open the mouths of the beautiful animals , examined their teeth , prodded them with whips to see if they were gentle , and poked them with their fingers or canes . 
Then she dropped him in the mud , and raised her dainty head with an air as if to say that she held him to be beneath contempt . 
The fellow , however , was not inclined to put up with that kind of treatment . 
With a volley of oaths he sprang up and would have struck the mare in the mouth with his clinched fist , if Erik had not darted forward and warded off the blow . 
How dare you strike that beautiful creature ? he cried , indignantly . 
Hold your jaw , you gosling , or I'll hit you instead , retorted the man . 
But by that time one of the royal grooms had made his appearance and the brute did not dare carry out his threat . 
While the groom strove to quiet the mare , a great tumult arose in some other part of the market place . 
There was a whinnying , plunging , rearing , and screaming , as if the whole field had gone mad . 
The black mare joined in the concert , and stood with her ears pricked up and her head raised in an attitude of panicky expectation . 
Quite fearlessly Erik walked up to her , patted her on the neck and spoke soothingly to her . 
And at that moment Erik's heart went out to that dumb creature with an affection which he had never felt toward any living thing before . 
He determined , whatever might happen , to bid on her and to buy her , whatever she might prove to be worth . 
As a mere matter of form , he resolved to try the mare before bidding on her and slipping a coin into the groom's hand he asked for a saddle . 
It turned out , however , that all the saddles were in use , and Erik had no choice but to mount bareback . 
Ride her on the snaffle . 
Good gracious , how recklessly that boy rides ! one jockey observed to another but he has got a good grip with his knees all the same . 
Yes , he sits like a daisy , the second replied , critically but mind my word , Lady Clare will throw him yet . 
She never could stand anybody but the princess on her back and that was the reason her Royal Highness was so fond of her . 
But look at the lad ! I told you Lady Clare wouldn't stand no manner of nonsense from boys . 
She is kicking like a Trojan ! She'll make hash of him if he loses his seat . 
Yes , but he sticks like a burr . 
That's a jewel of a lad , I tell ye . 
He ought to have been a jockey . 
Up the track came Lady Clare , black as the ace of spades , acting like the Old Harry . 
Something had displeased her , obviously , and she held Erik responsible for it . 
Possibly she had just waked up to the fact that she , who had been the pet of a princess , was now being ridden by an ordinary commoner . 
At all events , she had made up her mind to get rid of the commoner without further ceremony . 
Erik was dripping with perspiration when he dismounted , and Lady Clare's glossy coat was flecked with foam . 
She was not aware , apparently , that if she had any reputation to ruin she had damaged it most effectually . 
All her beauty and her distinguished ancestry counted for nothing , as long as she had so uncertain a temper . 
She's a beauty , gentlemen , sired by the famous Potiphar who won the Epsom Handicap and no end of minor stakes . 
Take a look at her , gentlemen ! Did you ever see a horse before that was raven black from nose to tail ? I reckon you never did . 
But such a horse is Lady Clare . 
The man who can find a single white hair on her can have her for a gift . 
Come forward , gentlemen , come forward . 
Who will start her say at five hundred ? A derisive laugh ran through the crowd , and a voice was heard to cry , Fifty . 
Here came a long and impressive pause , during which the auctioneer , suddenly abandoning his dramatic manner , chatted familiarly with a gentleman who stood near him . 
The only one in the crowd whom he had impressed with the fact that the honor of the city was at stake in this sale was Erik Carstens . 
He had happily discovered a young and rich lieutenant of his father's company , and was trying to persuade him to bid in the mare for him . 
If father was at home , I believe he would allow me to buy this mare . 
But I am a minor yet , and the auctioneer would not accept my bid . 
Therefore I thought you might be kind enough to bid for me . 
The lieutenant made no answer , but looked at the earnest face of the boy with unmistakable sympathy . 
There it stopped , and neither the auctioneer's tears nor his prayers could apparently coax it higher . 
It will become a wagging of the head and a byword among the nations . 
Did I hear a hundred ? repeated the auctioneer , wonderingly . 
May I ask who was the gentleman who said a hundred ? An embarrassing silence followed . 
Erik knew that if he acknowledged the bid he would suffer the shame of having it refused . 
From sheer embarrassment he clutched the lieutenant's arm , and almost pinched it . 
Now I have gone and done it like the blooming idiot that I am , observed the lieutenant , when Lady Clare was led into his stable by a liveried groom . 
What an overhauling the captain will give me when he gets home . 
You need have no fear , Erik replied . 
I'll sound father as soon as he gets home and if he makes any trouble I'll pay you that one hundred dollars , with interest , the day I come of age . 
Well , the captain came home , and having long had the intention to present his son with a saddle horse , he allowed himself to be cajoled into approving of the bargain . 
As for Erik himself , he had never had any idea that a boy's life could be so glorious as his was now . 
The captain was far from suspecting that in that episode of the purchase of Lady Clare his own relation to his son had been at stake . 
and that last touch of devoted admiration which now bound them together . 
Though , as I have said , Captain Carstens lacked the acuteness to discover how much he owed to Lady Clare , he acknowledged himself in quite a different way her debtor . 
A boy so full of pluck must amount to something , even if he does not take kindly to Latin , he reflected many a time . 
I am afraid I have made a mistake in having him prepared for college . 
In the army now , and particularly in the cavalry , he would make a reputation in twenty minutes . 
And a cavalryman Erik might , perhaps , have become if his father had not been transferred to another post , and compelled to take up his residence in the country . 
As the weather proved unusually mild during the northward voyage Lady Clare arrived in Sogn without accident or adventure . 
And never in all her life had she looked more beautiful than she did when she came off the steamer , and half the population of the valley turned out to see her . 
, for he felt in every fibre of his body the sensation she was making , and blushed with pleasure as if the admiring exclamations had been intended for himself . 
Look at that horse , cried young and old , with eyes as big as saucers , pointing with their fingers at Lady Clare . 
Handsome carcass that mare has , remarked a stoutish man , who knew what he was talking about and head and legs to match . 
She beats your Valders Roan all hollow , John Garvestad , said a young tease who stood next to him in the crowd . 
My Valders Roan has never seen his match yet , and never will , according to my reckoning , answered John Garvestad . 
Ho ! ho ! shouted the young fellow , with a mocking laugh that black mare is a hand taller at the very least , and I bet you she's a high flyer . 
She has got the prettiest legs I ever clapped eyes on . 
They'd snap like clay pipes in the mountains , replied Garvestad , contemptuously . 
He was only blissfully conscious of the admiration she had excited and he promised himself a good deal of fun in future in showing off his horsemanship . 
, how to blanket her , and how to read the thermometer which he nailed to one of the posts of the stall . 
To make sure that he had understood him he asked him to enter the stall and begin the process of grooming . 
A second and a third trial had similar results and as the box stall was new and of hard wood , Erik had no wish to see it further damaged . 
One does not commence life associating with a princess for nothing . 
But with all her skittishness and caprice she was steadfast in one thing , and that was her love for Erik . 
As the days went by in country monotony , he began to feel it as a privilege rather than a burden to have the exclusive care of her . 
Yes , he loved this beautiful animal with a devotion which , a year ago , he would scarcely have thought it possible to bestow upon a horse . 
was , at all events , as distinct and clearly defined as that of any person with whom he was acquainted . 
which were , however , more than compensated for by her devotion to him . 
She was fastidious , quick tempered , utterly unreasonable where her feelings were involved full of aristocratic prejudice , which only her sex could excuse and whimsical , proud , and capricious . 
The fame of Lady Clare spread through the parish like fire in withered grass . 
People came from afar to look at her , and departed full of wonder at her beauty . 
There was one person besides the pastor who was ill pleased at the reputation Lady Clare was making . 
That was John Garvestad , the owner of Valders Roan . 
John was the richest man in the parish , and always made a point of keeping fine horses . 
By the side of Lady Clare he looked as a stout , good looking peasant lad with coltish manners might have looked by the side of the daughter of a hundred earls . 
But John Garvestad , who was naturally prejudiced in favor of his own horse , could scarcely be blamed for failing to recognize her superiority . 
This spectacle filled him with such ire that he hardly could control himself . 
His first impulse was to pick a quarrel with Erik but a second and far brighter idea presently struck him . 
He would buy Lady Clare . 
How much will you take for that mare of yours , captain ? he asked , as he checked his charger with unnecessary vigor close to Lady Clare . 
She is not mine to sell , the captain replied . 
Lady Clare belongs to my son . 
Well , what will you take for her , then ? Garvestad repeated , swaggeringly , turning to Erik . 
Not all the gold in the world could buy her , retorted Erik , warmly . 
Valders Roan , unable to resist the charms of Lady Clare , had in the meanwhile been making some cautious overtures toward an acquaintance . 
He arched his mighty neck , rose on his hind legs , while his tremendous forehoofs were beating the air , and cut up generally all for Lady Clare's benefit . 
Valders Roan , perceiving the slight , now concluded to make more decided advances . 
So he put forward his nose until it nearly touched Lady Clare's , as if he meant to kiss her . 
But that was more than her ladyship was prepared to put up with . 
Quick as a flash she flung herself back on her haunches , down went her ears , and hers was the angriest horse's head that ever had been seen in that parish . 
With an indignant snort she wheeled around , kicking up a cloud of dust by the suddenness of the manoeuvre . 
A less skilled rider than Erik would inevitably have been thrown by two such unforeseen jerks and the fact was he had all he could do to keep his seat . 
Oho ! shouted Garvestad , your mare shies she'll break your neck some day , as likely as not . 
You had better sell her before she gets you into trouble . 
But I shouldn't like to have your broken neck on my conscience , Erik replied if necks are to be broken by Lady Clare I should prefer to have it be my own . 
The peasant was not clever enough to make out whether this was jest or earnest . 
If it's spondulix you are after , then here's where there's plenty of 'em . 
It was but a few weeks after this occurrence that Captain Carstens and his son were invited to honor John Garvestad by their presence at his wedding . 
They were in doubt , at first , as to whether they ought to accept the invitation for some unpleasant rumors had reached them , showing that Garvestad entertained unfriendly feelings toward them . 
He was an intensely vain man and the thought that Erik Carstens had a finer horse than Valders Roan left him no peace . 
Whatever that meant , it sufficed to make both Erik and his father uneasy . 
But , on the other hand , it would be the worst policy possible , under such circumstances , to refuse the invitation . 
Accordingly he accepted the invitation and on the appointed day rode with his son into the wide yard of John Garvestad's farm , stopping at the pump , where they watered their horses . 
It was early in the afternoon , and both the house and the barn were thronged with wedding guests . 
From the sitting room the strains of two fiddles were heard , mingled with the scraping and stamping of heavy feet . 
Every word of praise that he heard sounded in his ears like a jeer and an insult to himself . 
He returned their greeting with scant courtesy and plunged instantly into the matter which he had on his mind . 
I reckon you have thought better of my offer by this time , he said , with a surly swagger , to Erik . 
What do you hold your mare at to day ? I thought we had settled that matter once for all , the boy replied , quietly . 
I have no more intention of selling Lady Clare now than I ever had . 
Then will ye trade her off for Valders Roan ? ejaculated Garvestad , eagerly . 
No , I won't trade her for Valders Roan or any other horse in creation . 
Don't be cantankerous , now , young fellow , or you might repent of it . 
But I beg of you kindly to drop this matter . 
I came here , at your invitation , as a guest at your wedding , not for the purpose of trading horses . 
It was an incautious speech , and was interpreted by everyone present as a rebuke to the bridegroom for his violation of the rules of hospitality . 
The captain , anxious to avoid a row , therefore broke in , in a voice of friendly remonstrance My dear Mr. Garvestad , do let us drop this matter . 
If you will permit us , we should like to dismount and drink a toast to your health , wishing you a long life and much happiness . 
Ah , yes , I understand your smooth palaver , the bridegroom growled between his teeth . 
I have stood your insolence long enough , and , by jingo , I won't stand it much longer . 
But then then they realized it with a vengeance . 
And a laugh went up a veritable storm of laughter which swept through the entire crowd and re echoed with a ghostly hilarity from the mountains . 
She was left untethered in an enclosed home pasture about half a mile from the mansion . 
Here she grazed , rolled , kicked up her heels , and gambolled to her heart's content . 
took no notice of him , he showed neither resentment nor surprise , but walked off with a sheepish shake of his head . 
It took Lady Clare several months to accustom Shag to her ways . 
She taught him unconsciously the rudiments of good manners but he proved himself docile , and when he once had been reduced to his proper place he proved a fairly acceptable companion . 
During the first and second week after John Garvestad's wedding Erik had kept Lady Clare stabled , having a vague fear that the angry peasant might intend to do her harm . 
This was a privilege which Shag could not fail to appreciate , though she never offered to return the favor by clawing him . 
At any rate , as soon as Lady Clare reappeared in the meadow Shag's cup of bliss seemed to be full . 
A week passed in this way , nothing happened , and Erik's vigilance was relaxed . 
He went to bed on the evening of July th with an easy mind , without the remotest apprehension of danger . 
Then came the tramp , tramp , tramp of heavy hoof beats , which made the ground tremble . 
Lady Clare lifted her beautiful head and looked with fearless curiosity in the direction whence the sound came . 
Shag , of course , did as nearly as he could exactly the same . 
What they saw was a big roan horse with an enormous arched neck , squat feet , and long tasselled fetlocks . 
Lady Clare had no difficulty in recognizing Valders Roan . 
But how big and heavy and ominous he looked in the blood red after glow of the blood red sunset . 
For the first time in her life Lady Clare felt a cold shiver of fear run through her . 
There was , happily , a fence between them , and she devoutly hoped that Valders Roan was not a jumper . 
At that moment , however , two men appeared next to the huge horse , and Lady Clare heard the sound of breaking fence rails . 
She felt herself so entirely at his mercy she was no match for him surely . 
Shag , anxious as ever to take his cue from her , had stationed himself at her side , and shook his head and whisked his tail in a non committal manner . 
There he stopped , for back went Lady Clare's pretty ears , while she threw herself upon her haunches in an attitude of defence . 
She was dimly aware that this was a foolish thing to do , but her inbred disdain and horror of everything rough made her act on instinct instead of reason . 
Valders Roan , irritated by this uncalled for action , now threw ceremony to the winds , and without further ado trotted up and rubbed his nose against hers . 
That was more than Lady Clare could stand . 
With an hysterical snort she flung herself about , and up flew her heels straight into the offending nose , inflicting considerable damage . 
But alas for the generous folly of youth ! Shag had to pay dearly for that exhibition of devotion . 
Valders Roan , enraged by this wanton insult , made a dash at Shag , and by the mere impetus of his huge bulk nearly knocked him senseless . 
Valders Roan had now a clear field and could turn his undivided attention to Lady Clare . 
I am not sure that he had not made an example of Shag merely to frighten her . 
She had just managed by her superior alertness to dodge that deadly hoof , and was perhaps not prepared for an instant renewal of the attack . 
But she had barely gotten her four feet in contact with the sod when two rows of terrific teeth plunged into her withers . 
The pain was frightful , and with a long , pitiful scream Lady Clare sank down upon the ground , and , writhing with agony , beat the air with her hoofs . 
Shag , who had by this time recovered his senses , heard the noise of the battle , and , plucking up his courage , trotted bravely forward against the victorious Valders Roan . 
He was so frightened that his heart shot up into his throat . 
But there lay Lady Clare mangled and bleeding . 
He could not leave her in the lurch , so forward he came , trembling , just as Lady Clare was trying to scramble to her feet . 
Led away by his sympathy Shag bent his head down toward her and thereby prevented her from rising . 
And in the same instant a stunning blow hit him straight in the forehead , a shower of sparks danced before his eyes , and then Shag saw and heard no more . 
A convulsive quiver ran through his body , then he stretched out his neck on the bloody grass , heaved a sigh , and died . 
Lady Clare , seeing Shag killed by the blow which had been intended for herself , felt her blood run cold . 
She was strongly inclined to run , for she could easily beat the heavy Valders Roan at a race , and her fleet legs might yet save her . 
I cannot say whether it was a generous wrath at the killing of her humble champion or a mere blind fury which overcame this inclination . 
But she knew now neither pain nor fear . 
It was about five o'clock in the morning of July th , that Erik awoke , with a vague sense that something terrible had happened . 
His groom was standing at his bedside with a terrified face , doubtful whether to arouse his young master or allow him to sleep . 
What has happened , Anders ? cried Erik , tumbling out of bed . 
Lady Clare , sir Lady Clare ! shouted the boy . 
What about her ? Has she been stolen ? No , I reckon not , drawled Anders . 
Then she's dead ! Quick , tell me what you know or I shall go crazy ! No I can't say for sure she's dead either , the groom stammered , helplessly . 
Erik , being too stunned with grief and pain , tumbled in a dazed fashion about the room , and scarcely knew how he managed to dress . 
He felt cold , shivery , and benumbed and the daylight had a cruel glare in it which hurt his eyes . 
Accompanied by his groom , he hastened to the home pasture , and saw there the evidence of the fierce battle which had raged during the night . 
Here the fence had been broken down , and the track of the fight suddenly ceased . 
Having a wholesome dread of jail , he had not dared to steal Lady Clare but he had chosen this contemptible method to satisfy his senseless jealousy . 
It was all so cunningly devised as to baffle legal inquiry . 
Valders Roan had gotten astray , and being a heavy beast , had broken into a neighbor's field and fought with his filly , chasing her away into the mountains . 
That was the story he would tell , of course , and as there had been no witnesses present , there was no way of disproving it . 
Abandoning , however , for the time being all thought of revenge , Erik determined to bend all his energies to the recovery of Lady Clare . 
He felt confident that she had run away from her assailant , and was now roaming about in the mountains . 
He therefore organized a search party of all the male servants on the estate , besides a couple of volunteers , making in all nine . 
On the evening of the first day's search they put up at a saeter or mountain chalet . 
Here they met a young man named Tollef Morud , who had once been a groom at John Garvestad's . 
For a week the search was continued , but had finally to be given up . 
Weary , footsore , and heavy hearted , Erik returned home . 
It was therefore determined to send him to the military academy in the capital . 
Four or five years passed and Erik became a lieutenant . 
Seated in their narrow sleighs , which were drawn by brisk horses , they drove merrily along , shouting to each other to make their voices heard above the jingling of the bells . 
About eight o'clock in the evening , when the moon was shining brightly and the snow sparkling , they turned in at a wayside tavern to order their supper . 
Here a great crowd of lumbermen had congregated , and all along the fences their overworked , half broken down horses stood , shaking their nose bags . 
They were sauntering about , talking in a desultory fashion , when all of a sudden a wild , joyous whinny rang out upon the startled air . 
It came from a rusty , black , decrepit looking mare hitched to a lumber sleigh which they had just passed . 
Erik , growing very serious , paused abruptly . 
You once had a horse you cared a great deal for , didn't you ? his friend remarked , casually . 
With a low , insinuating neighing she rubbed her nose against the lieutenant's cheek . 
He had let his hand glide over her long , thin neck , when quite suddenly his fingers slid into a deep scar in the withers . 
Come now , don't be a goose . 
I'll tell you of it some other time , said Erik , quietly but there's not a shadow of a doubt that this is Lady Clare . 
Yes , strange as it may seem , it was indeed Lady Clare . 
Poor Lady Clare , she had seen hard usage . 
But now the days of her tribulations are at an end . 
There is but little more to relate . 
By interviews and correspondence with the different parties through whose hands the mare had passed , Erik succeeded in tracing her to Tollef Morud , the ex groom of John Garvestad . 
John Garvestad had himself watched the fight from behind the fence , and had laughed fit to split his sides , until Valders Roan seemed on the point of being worsted . 
As for Lady Clare , she never recovered her lost beauty . 
A pretty fair looking mare she became , to be sure , when good feeding and careful grooming had made her fat and glossy once more . 
A long and contented old age is , no doubt , in store for her . 
Having known evil days , she appreciates the blessings which the change in her fate has brought her . 
The captain declares she is the best tempered and steadiest horse in his stable . 
There was scarcely anything Grim could not do . 
He was a sort of jack of all trades , and a very useful man in a valley where mechanics were few and transportation difficult . 
He loved work for its own sake , and was ill at ease when he had not a tool in his hand . 
The exercise of his skill gave him a pleasure akin to that which the fish feels in swimming , the eagle in soaring , and the lark in singing . 
When his son was born his chief delight was to think of the time when he should be old enough to handle a tool , and learn the secrets of his father's trade . 
And Bonnyboy , in the meanwhile amused himself by getting into all sorts of mischief . 
It was when the child was eighteen or nineteen months old that he acquired the name Bonnyboy . 
Good gracious ! what is that ugly thing you have got under your turning bench ? she cried , staring at the child in amazement . 
No , he is not an ugly thing , replied the father , with resentment he is a bonny boy , that's what he is . 
And from that day the name Bonnyboy clung to him . 
To teach Bonnyboy the trade of a carpenter was a task which would have exhausted the patience of all the saints in the calendar . 
If there was any possible way of doing a thing wrong , Bonnyboy would be sure to hit upon that way . 
, I wouldn't bother about that if I were you . 
I don't worry a bit . 
Something will turn up for me to do , sooner or later . 
But you'll do it badly , Bonnyboy , and then you won't get a second chance . 
And then , who knows but you may starve to death . 
Well , observed Bonnyboy , cheerfully , in that case I shall not starve to death . 
Grim had to laugh in spite of himself at the paternal way in which his son comforted him , as if he were the party to be pitied . 
Bonnyboy's unfailing cheerfulness , which had its great charm , began to cause him uneasiness , because he feared it was but another form of stupidity . 
A cleverer boy would have been sorry for his mistakes and anxious about his own future . 
But Bonnyboy looked into the future with the serene confidence of a child , and nothing under the sun ever troubled him , except his father's tendency to worry . 
For he was very fond of his father , and praised him as a paragon of skill and excellence . 
He lavished an abject admiration on everything he did and said . 
His dexterity in the use of tools , and his varied accomplishments as a watch maker and a horse doctor , filled Bonnyboy with ungrudging amazement . 
He knew it was a hopeless thing for him to aspire to rival such genius , and he took the thing philosophically , and did not aspire . 
The pastor had had a long experience in educating children , and his own , though they were not all clever , promised to turn out well . 
Accordingly Grim called at the parsonage , was well received , and returned home charged to the muzzle with good advice . 
The pastor lent him a book full of stories , and recommended him to read them to his son , and afterward question him about every single fact which each story contained . 
This the pastor had found to be a good way to develop the intellect of a backward boy . 
When Bonnyboy had been confirmed , the question again rose what was to become of him . 
He was now a tall young fellow , red checked , broad shouldered , and strong , and rather nice looking . 
Most people liked him , even though they laughed at him behind his back but to his face nobody laughed , because his strength inspired respect . 
Nor did he know what fear was when he was roused but that was probably , as people thought , because he did not know much of anything . 
On the neighboring farm of Gimlehaug there was a wedding to which Grim and his son were invited . 
So , by way of pleasantry , he pulled the tuft of hair which hung down upon Bonnyboy's forehead . 
Don't do that , said Bonnyboy . 
Ola Klemmerud chuckled , and the next time he passed Bonnyboy , pinched his ear . 
If you do that again I sha'n't like you , cried Bonnyboy . 
The innocence of that remark made the people laugh , and the bully , seeing that their sympathy was on his side , was encouraged to continue his teasing . 
Taking a few dancing steps across the floor , he managed to touch Bonnyboy's nose with the toe of his boot , which feat again was rewarded with a burst of laughter . 
This speech struck the company as being immensely funny , and they laughed till the tears ran down their cheeks . 
At this moment Grim entered , and perceived at once that Ola Klemmerud was amusing the company at his son's expense . 
He grew hot about his ears , clinched his teeth , and stared challengingly at the bully . 
The latter began to feel uncomfortable , but he could not stop at this point without turning the laugh against himself , and that he had not the courage to do . 
This appeared such innocent sport , according to his notion , that no rational creature could take offence at it . 
But Grim , whose sense of humor was probably defective , failed to see it in that light . 
Let the boy alone , he thundered . 
Well , don't bite my head off , old man , replied Ola . 
I haven't hurt your fool of a boy . 
I have only been joking with him . 
I don't think you are troubled with overmuch wit yourself , judging by the style of your jokes , was Grim's cool retort . 
The blood mounted to his head , and his anger got the better of his natural cowardice . 
Instead of sneaking off , as he had intended , he wheeled about on his heel and stood for a moment irresolute , clinching his fist in his pocket . 
Why don't you take your lunkhead of a son home to his mother , if he isn't bright enough to understand fun ! he shouted . 
Now let me see if you are bright enough to understand the same kind of fun , cried Grim . 
Whereupon he knocked off Ola's cap , rumpled his hair , and gave his nose such a pull that it was a wonder it did not come off . 
The bully , taken by surprise , tumbled a step backward , but recovering himself , struck Grim in the face with his clinched fist . 
Bonnyboy , who had risen to go to his father's assistance , paused in astonishment in the middle of the floor . 
He could not comprehend , poor boy , why everything he said provoked such uncontrollable mirth . 
He surely had no intention of being funny . 
This dawned presently upon Bonnyboy's slow comprehension , and his good natured smile gave way to a flush of excitement . 
He took two long strides across the floor , pushed his father gently aside , and stood facing his antagonist . 
He repeated once more his invitation to sit down to which the latter responded with a slap which made the sparks dance before Bonnyboy's eyes . 
Now Bonnyboy became really angry . 
Will you now sit down ? said Bonnyboy . 
Nobody laughed this time , and the bully , not daring to rise , remained seated on the floor among the ruins of the chair . 
Thereupon , with imperturbable composure , Bonnyboy turned to his father , brushed off his coat with his hands and smoothed his disordered hair . 
Now let us go home , father , he said , and taking the old man's arm he walked out of the room . 
But hardly had he crossed the threshold before the astonished company broke into cheering . 
Good for you , Bonnyboy ! Well done , Bonnyboy ! You are a bully boy , Bonnyboy ! they cried after him . 
But Bonnyboy strode calmly along , quite unconscious of his triumph , and only happy to have gotten his father out of the room safe and sound . 
For a good while they walked on in silence . 
but then , you know , I asked him to sit down , and he wouldn't . 
Bless your innocent heart ! murmured his father , as he gazed at Bonnyboy's honest face with a mingling of affection and pity . 
When Bonnyboy was twenty years old his father gave up , once for all , his attempt to make a carpenter of him . 
At one of these saw mills Bonnyboy sought work , and was engaged with many others as a mill hand . 
Very little art was , indeed , required for this simple task but strength was required , and of this Bonnyboy had enough and to spare . 
He worked with a will from early morn till dewy eve , and was happy in the thought that he had at last found something that he could do . 
It was as if he felt his father's eye upon him long before he saw him . 
There was a curious kind of sympathy between them which expressed itself , on the father's part , in a need to be near his son . 
Grim , therefore , invented all kinds of transparent pretexts for paying visits to the saw mills . 
That big brawny fellow , with the frame of a man and the brain of a child , with his guileless face and his guileless heart , strangely moved his compassion . 
There was something almost beautiful about him , his father thought but he could not have told what it was nor would he probably have found any one else that shared his opinion . 
V. There were sixteen saw mills in all , and the one at which Bonnyboy was employed was the last of the series . 
These four dams were built of big stones , earthwork , and lumber , faced with smooth planks , over which a small quantity of water usually drizzled into the shallow river bed . 
But merciful though he was , he had been much discouraged when , after having put them back into the river , they had promptly repeated the experiment . 
They took good care , however , not to rouse his wrath , for the reputation he had acquired by his treatment of Ola Klemmerud made them afraid to risk a collision . 
This was the situation when the great floods of came , and introduced a spice of danger into Bonnyboy's monotonous life . 
Guards were stationed all the way up the river to intercept any stray lumber that might be afloat . 
For if a log jam were added to the terrific strain of the flood , there would surely be no salvation possible . 
Yet in spite of all precautions , big logs now and then came bumping against the dams , and shot with wild gyrations and somersaults down into the brown eddies below . 
Bonnyboy and his comrades , who had had by far the harder part of the task , were ready to drop with fatigue . 
It was now eight o'clock in the evening , and they had worked since six in the morning , and had scarcely had time to swallow their scant rations . 
Some of them began to grumble , and the engineer had to coax and threaten them to induce them to persevere for another hour . 
The moon was just rising behind the mountain ridges , and the beautiful valley lay , with its green fields , sprouting forests , and red painted farm houses , at Bonnyboy's feet . 
It was terrible to think that perhaps destruction was to overtake those happy and peaceful homes , where men had lived and died for many hundred years . 
Bonnyboy could scarcely keep back the tears when this fear suddenly came over him . 
Women were busy with their household tasks some boys were playing in the streets , damming up the gutters and shrieking with joy when their dams broke . 
A few provident souls had driven their cattle to the neighboring hills but neither themselves nor their children had they thought it necessary to remove . 
The fact was , nobody believed that the dams would break , as they had not imagination enough to foresee what would happen if the dams did break . 
Bonnyboy was wet to the skin , and his knees were a trifle shaky from exhaustion . 
To restrain this frisky animal had required all Bonnyboy's strength , and he stood wiping his brow with the sleeve of his shirt . 
Save yourselves , lads ! he screamed . 
Run to the woods ! And suiting his action to his words , he tumbled down from the log pile , and darted up the hill side toward the forest . 
The other men , hearing the wild rush and roar above them , lost no time in following his example . 
Only Bonnyboy , slow of comprehension as always , did not obey . 
Suddenly there flared up a wild resolution in his face . 
He pulled out his knife , cut the traces , and leaped upon the colt's back . 
Lashing the beast , and shouting at the top of his voice , he dashed down the hill side at a break neck pace . 
The dam is breaking ! he roared . 
Run for the woods ! He glanced anxiously behind him to see if the flood was overtaking him . 
A great cloud of spray was rising against the sky , and he heard the yells of men and the frenzied neighing of horses through the thunderous roar . 
But happily there was time . 
The dam was giving way gradually , and had not yet let loose the tremendous volume of death and desolation which it held enclosed within its frail timbers . 
The colt , catching the spirit of excitement in the air , flew like the wind , leaving farm after farm behind it , until it reached the village . 
In an instant all was in wildest commotion . 
It came nearer and nearer . 
It filled the great vault of the sky with a rush as of colossal wing beats . 
It was the morning after the disaster . 
The sun rose red and threatening , circled with a ring of fiery mist . 
People encamped upon the hill side greeted each other as on the morn of resurrection . 
For many were found among the living who were being mourned as dead . 
When all were counted , it was ascertained that but very few of the villagers had been overtaken by the flood . 
The timely warning had enabled all to save themselves , except some who in their eagerness to rescue their goods had lingered too long . 
Impoverished most of them were by the loss of their houses and cattle . 
The calamity was indeed overwhelming . 
And who was it that brought the tidings that snatched them from the jaws of death ? Well , nobody knew . 
And each was too much startled by the message to take note of the messenger . 
But who could he possibly have been ? An angel from Heaven , perhaps sent by God in His mercy . 
That was indeed more than likely . 
The belief was at once accepted that the rescuer was an angel from heaven . 
But just then a lumberman stepped forward who had worked at the mill and said It was Bonnyboy , Grim Carpenter's son . 
I saw him jump on his gray colt . 
Bonnyboy , Grim Carpenter's son . 
But the lumberman insisted that it was , and they had to believe him , though , of course , it was a disappointment . 
But where was Bonnyboy ? He deserved thanks , surely . 
And , moreover , that gray colt was a valuable animal . 
It was to be hoped that it was not drowned . 
The water had now subsided , though it yet overflowed the banks so that trees , bent and splintered by the terrific force of the flood , grew far out in the river . 
The foul dams had all been swept away , and the tawny torrent ran again with tumultuous rapids in its old channel . 
Of the mills scarcely a vestige was left except slight cavities in the banks , and a few twisted beams clinging to the rocks where they had stood . 
The ruins of the village , with jagged chimneys and broken walls , loomed out of a half inundated meadow , through which erratic currents were sweeping . 
Here and there lay a dead cow or dog , and in the branches of a maple tree the carcasses of two sheep were entangled . 
In this marshy field a stooping figure was seen wading about , as if in search of something . 
The water broke about his knees , and sometimes reached up to his waist . 
He stood like one dazed , and stared into the brown swirling torrent . 
Now he poked something with his boat hook , now bent down and purled some dead thing out of a copse of shrubbery in which it had been caught . 
The sun rose higher in the sky , and the red vapors were scattered . 
But still the old man trudged wearily about , with the stony stare in his eyes , searching for him whom he had lost . 
They shouted to the old man in the submerged field , and asked what he was looking for . 
But he only shook his head , as if he did not understand . 
Why , that is old Grim the carpenter , said someone . 
Has anybody seen Bonnyboy ? But no one had seen Bonnyboy . 
Do you want help ? they shouted to Grim but they got no answer . 
Hour after hour old Grim trudged about in the chilly water searching for his son . 
Then , about noon , when he had worked his way far down the river , he caught sight of something which made his heart stand still . 
In a brown pool , in which a half submerged willow tree grew , he saw a large grayish shape which resembled a horse . 
He stretched out the boat hook and rolled it over . 
Dumbly , fearlessly , he stood staring into the pool . 
There lay his son there lay Bonnyboy stark and dead . 
The cold perspiration broke out upon Grim's brow , and his great breast labored . 
Slowly he stooped down , drew the dead body out of the water , and tenderly laid it across his knees . 
He stared into the sightless eyes , and murmuring a blessing , closed them . 
There was a large discolored spot on the forehead , as of a bruise . 
Grim laid his hand softly upon it , and stroked away the yellow tuft of hair . 
My poor lad , he said , while the tears coursed down his wrinkled cheeks , you had a weak head , but your heart , Bonnyboy your heart was good . 
THE CHILD OF LUCK I. A sunny tempered little fellow was Hans , and his father declared that he had brought luck with him when he came into the world . 
This was a standing dispute between Nils and Inga , his wife , and they never came to an agreement . 
She knew as well as her husband that before little Hans was born there was want and misery in their cottage . 
But from the hour the child lifted up its tiny voice , announcing its arrival , there had been prosperity and contentment . 
Their luck had turned , Nils said , and it was the child that had turned it . 
They had been married for four years , and though they had no one to provide for but themselves , they scarcely managed to keep body and soul together . 
All sorts of untoward things happened . 
But since little Hans had come and put an end to all these disasters , his father had a superstitious feeling that he could not bear to have him away from him . 
Therefore every morning when he started out for the forest or the river he carried Hans on his shoulder . 
And the little boy sat there , smiling proudly and waving his hand to his mother , who stood in the door looking longingly after him . 
Hello , little chap ! cried the lumbermen , when they saw him . 
Hans had a smile and a wave of his hand for everybody . 
He knew all the lumbermen by name , and they knew him . 
They sang as they swung the axe or the boat hook , and the work went merrily when little Hans sat on the top of the log pile and shouted to them . 
But if by chance he was absent for a day or two they missed him . 
No songs were heard , but harsh words , and not infrequently quarrels . 
No one will wonder that Nils sometimes boasted of his little son . 
Lumbermen are naturally superstitious , and though perhaps at first they may have had their doubts , they gradually came to accept the statement without question . 
They were not in the least afraid lest the logs should jump the chute , as they had often done before , killing or maiming the unhappy man that came too near . 
It was early in May , and the river was swollen from recent thaws . 
Catch that one , papa ! he cried that is a good big fellow . 
He dived like a man , he did . 
He has washed the dirt off his snout now that was the reason he took such a big plunge . 
Nils never failed to reach his boat hook after the log little Hans indicated , for he liked to humor him , and little Hans liked to be humored . 
He had an idea that he was directing his father's work , and Nils invented all sorts of innocent devices to flatter little Hans's dignity , and make him think himself indispensable . 
It was of no use , therefore , for poor Inga to beg little Hans to go home with her . 
He had so much to do , he said , that he couldn't . 
He even tried to tear himself away from his mother when she took him by the arm and remonstrated with him . 
And then and there the conviction stole upon Inga that her child did not love her . 
She was nothing to him compared to what his father was . 
A bitter sense of loneliness and loss overcame the poor wife as she stood on the river bank pleading with her child , and finding that she annoyed instead of moving him . 
Won't you come home with mamma , little Hans ? she asked , tearfully . 
The kitten misses you very much it has been mewing for you all the morning . 
But this dreadful noise , dear how can you stand it ? And the logs shooting down that slide and making such a racket . 
Oh , do come down , child do come down ! begged Inga , anxiously . 
A long confused rumble of rolling logs followed , terrified voices rent the air , and , above it all , the deep and steady roar of the cataract . 
His laughter was still ringing in her ears the poor child , he did not realize his danger . 
The rumbling of falling logs continued with terrifying persistence . 
Splash ! splash ! splash ! they went , diving by twos , by fours , and by dozens at the very spot where her child had vanished . 
But where was little Hans ? Oh , where was he ? It was all so misty , so unreal and confused . 
She could not tell whether little Hans was among the living or among the dead . 
A dozen more were running down the slope as fast as their legs could carry them and they gave a tremendous cheer when they saw little Hans's face above the water . 
He looked a trifle pale and shivery , and he gave a funny little snort , so that the water spurted from his nose . 
He had lost his hat , but he did not seem to be hurt . 
His little arms clung tightly about his father's neck , while Nils , dodging the bobbing logs , struck out with all his might for the shore . 
It was wonderful indeed , they said , that he ever came up out of that horrible jumble of pitching and diving logs . 
He is a child of luck , if ever there was one . 
Not one of them thought of the boy's mother , and little Hans himself scarcely thought of her , elated as he was at the welcome he received from the lumbermen . 
Poor Inga stood dazed , struggling with a horrible feeling , seeing her child passed from one to the other , while she herself claimed no share in him . 
Somehow the thought stung her . 
From that day little Hans was not permitted to go to the river . 
It was in vain that Nils pleaded and threatened . 
His wife acted so unreasonably when that question was broached that he saw it was useless to discuss it . 
She seized little Hans as a tigress might seize her young , and held him tightly clasped , as if daring anybody to take him away from her . 
Nils knew it would require force to get his son back again , and that he was not ready to employ . 
But all joy seemed to have gone out of his life since he had lost the daily companionship of little Hans . 
His work became drudgery and all the little annoyances of life , which formerly he had brushed away as one brushes a fly from his nose , became burdens and calamities . 
It isn't the same sort of place since you took little Hans away , the lumbermen would often say to Nils . 
There's no sort of luck in anything . 
Sometimes they taunted him with want of courage , and called him a night cap and a hen pecked coon , all of which made Nils uncomfortable . 
The boy , in fact , sympathized with his father , and found his confinement at home irksome . 
The companionship of the cat had no more charm for him and even the brindled calf , which had caused such an excitement when he first arrived , had become an old story . 
Little Halls fretted , was mischievous for want of better employment , and gave his mother no end of trouble . 
He longed for the gay and animated life at the river , and he would have run away if he had not been watched . 
He could not imagine how the lumbermen could be getting on without him . 
Now , as a matter of fact , they were not getting on very well at the river without little Hans . 
The luck had deserted them , the lumbermen said and whatever mishaps they had , they attributed to the absence of little Hans . 
They came to look with ill suppressed hostility at Nils , whom they regarded as responsible for their misfortunes . 
For they could scarcely believe that he was quite in earnest in his desire for the boy's return , otherwise they could not comprehend how his wife could dare to oppose him . 
Several men were badly hurt by beams shooting like rockets through the air , and old Mads Furubakken was knocked senseless and carried home for dead . 
Then the lumbermen held a council , and made up their minds to get little Hans by fair means or foul . 
They thought first of sending a delegation of four or five men that very morning , but finally determined to march up to Nils's cottage in a body and demand the boy . 
Nils , who was just out of bed , was sitting on the threshold smoking his pipe and pitching a ball to little Hans , who laughed with delight whenever he caught it . 
Inga was bustling about inside the house , preparing breakfast , which was to consist of porridge , salt herring , and baked potatoes . 
It had rained during the night , and the sky was yet overcast , but the sun was struggling to break through the cloud banks . 
He rose , with some astonishment , and went to meet them . 
Distracted with fear and anxiety , she stood pressing her ear against the crack in the door , and sometimes peeping out to see what measures she must take for the child's safety . 
Next he would be inviting them to come in and take little Hans . 
She saw one of the men Stubby Mons by name step forward , and she plainly heard him say We miss the little chap down at the river , Nils . 
The luck has been against us since he left . 
Well , Mons , Nils answered , I miss the little chap as much as any of you perhaps more . 
But my wife she's got a sort of crooked notion that the boy won't come home alive if she lets him go to the river . 
She got a bad scare last time , and it isn't any use arguing with her . 
But won't you let us talk to her , Nils ? one of the lumbermen proposed . 
It is a tangled skein , and I don't pretend to say that I can straighten it out . 
But two men have been killed and one crippled since the little chap was taken away . 
And in the three years he was with us no untoward thing happened . 
Now that speaks for itself , Nils , doesn't it ? It does , indeed , said Nils , with an air of conviction . 
And you'll let us talk to your wife , and see if we can't make her listen to reason , the man urged . 
He rose slowly , and tried to open the door . 
Open , Inga , he said , a trifle impatiently there are some men here who want to see you . 
Inga sat crouching on the hearth , hugging little Hans to her bosom . 
She shook and trembled with fear , let her eyes wander around the walls , and now and then moaned at the thought that now they would take little Hans away from her . 
Why don't you open the door for papa ? asked little Hans , wonderingly . 
But all of a sudden , in a paroxysm of fear , she withdrew her hand , turned about , and fled with the child through the back door . 
The alder bushes grew close up to the walls of the cottage , and by stooping a little she managed to remain unobserved . 
The wild eyes and agitated face of his mother distressed him , and the little showers of last night's rain which the trees shook down upon him made him shiver . 
Why do you run so , mamma ? he asked , when she removed her hand from his mouth . 
Because the bad men want to take you away from me , Hans , she answered , panting . 
Those were not bad men , mamma , the boy ejaculated . 
That was Stubby Mons and Stuttering Peter and Lars Skin breeches . 
They don't , want to hurt me . 
He expected that his mamma would be much relieved at receiving this valuable information , and return home without delay . 
But she still pressed on , flushed and panting , and cast the same anxious glances behind her . 
In the meanwhile Nils and his guests had entirely lost their patience . 
To his amazement there was no one in the room . 
Thinking that Inga might have gone to the cow stable , he ran to the rear of the cottage , and called her name . 
Hans , he cried , where are you ? But Hans , too , was as if spirited away . 
It scarcely occurred to Nils , until he had searched the cow stable and the house in vain , that his wife had fled from the harmless lumbermen . 
Nils grew hot and cold in the same moment as this dreadful apprehension took lodgement in his mind . 
I would ask ye this , lads , he said , finally if you would help me search for them . 
The men understood the situation at a glance , and promised their aid . 
Forming a line , with a space of twenty feet between each man , they began to beat the bush , climbing the steep slope toward the mountains . 
Inga , pausing for an instant , and peering out between the tree trunks , saw the alder bushes wave as they broke through the underbrush . 
She knew now that she was pursued . 
Tired she was , too , and the boy grew heavier for every step that she advanced . 
And yet if she made him walk , he might run away from her . 
If he heard his father's voice , he would be certain to answer . 
Much perplexed , she looked about her for a hiding place . 
For , as the men would be sure to overtake her , her only safety was in hiding . 
With tottering knees she stumbled along , carrying the heavy child , grabbing hold of the saplings for support , and yet scarcely keeping from falling . 
The cold perspiration broke from her brow and a strange faintness overcame her . 
You will have to walk , little Hans , she said , at last . 
But if you run away from me , dear , I shall lie down here and die . 
Little Hans promised that he would not run away , and for five minutes they walked up a stony path which looked like the abandoned bed of a brook . 
You hurt my hand , mamma , whimpered the boy , you squeeze so hard . 
She would have answered , but just then she heard the voices of the lumbermen scarcely fifty paces away . 
Suddenly she stood before a rocky wall some eighty or a hundred feet high . 
She could go no farther . 
Her strength was utterly exhausted . 
There was a big boulder lying at the base of the rock , and a spreading juniper half covered it . 
But , strange to say , little Hans fell farther than she had calculated , and utterly vanished from sight . 
She heard a muffled cry , and reaching her hand in the direction where he had fallen , caught hold of his arm . 
A strong , wild smell beat against her , and little Hans , as he was pulled out , was enveloped in a most unpleasant odor . 
But odor or no odor , here was the very hiding place she had been seeking . 
A deserted wolf's den , it was , probably at least she hoped it was deserted for if it was not , she might be confronted with even uglier customers than the lumbermen . 
Quick as a flash she slipped into the hole , and dragged Hans after her . 
The juniper bush entirely covered the entrance . 
She could see everyone who approached , without being seen . 
Unhappily , the boy too caught sight of Stubby Mons , and called him by name . 
The lumberman stopped and pricked up his ears . 
Did you hear anybody call ? he asked his companion . 
N n n n aw , I d d d d didn't , answered Stuttering Peter . 
There b be lots of qu qu qu qu eer n noises in the w w w woods . 
He had a delicious sense of being well hidden , and had forgotten everything except the zest of the game . 
Most exciting it became when Stubby Mons drew the juniper bush aside and peered eagerly behind the boulder . 
Inga's heart stuck in her throat she felt sure that in the next instant they would be discovered . 
And as ill luck would have it , there was something alive scrambling about her feet and tugging at her skirts . 
Suddenly she felt a sharp bite , but clinched her teeth , and uttered no sound . 
When her vision again cleared , the juniper branch had rebounded into its place , and the face of Stubby Mons was gone . 
She drew a deep breath of relief , but yet did not dare to emerge from the den . 
For one , two , three tremulous minutes she remained motionless , feeling all the while that uncomfortable sensation of living things about her . 
At last she could endure it no longer . 
Thrusting little Hans before her , she crawled out of the hole , and looked back into the small cavern . 
The truth dawned upon her , and it chilled her to the marrow of her bones . 
The wolf's den was not deserted . 
The old folks were only out hunting , and the shouting and commotion of the searching party had probably prevented them from returning in time to look after their family . 
She seized little Hans by the hand , and once more dragged him away over the rough path . 
He soon became tired and fretful , and in spite of all her entreaties began to shout lustily for his father . 
But the men were now so far away that they could not hear him . 
He complained of hunger and when presently they came to a blueberry patch , she flung herself down on the heather and allowed him to pick berries . 
She heard cow bells and sheep bells tinkling round about her , and concluded that she could not be far from the saeters , or mountain dairies . 
That was fortunate , indeed , for she would not have liked to sleep in the woods with wolves and bears prowling about her . 
There was again help in need . 
She approached the cow , patted it , and calling little Hans , bade him sit down in the heather and open his mouth . 
He obeyed rather wonderingly , but perceived his mother's intent when she knelt at his side and began to milk into his mouth . 
It seemed to him that he had never tasted anything so delicious as this fresh rich milk , fragrant with the odor of the woods and the succulent mountain grass . 
When his hunger was satisfied , he fell again to picking berries , while Inga refreshed herself with milk in the same simple fashion . 
It was singular what luck attended her in the midst of her misfortune . 
Perhaps it was , after all , no idle tale that little Hans was a child of luck and she had done the lumbermen injustice in deriding their faith in him . 
Perhaps there was some guiding Providence in all that had happened , destined in the end to lead little Hans to fortune and glory . 
Much encouraged by this thought , she stooped over him and kissed him then took his hand and trudged along over logs and stones , through juniper and bramble bushes . 
Mamma , said little Hans , where are you going ? I am going to the saeter , she answered where you have wanted so often to go . 
Then why don't you follow the cows ? They are going there too . 
Surely that child had a marvellous mind ! She smiled down upon him and nodded . 
By following the cows they arrived in twenty minutes at a neat little log cabin , from which the smoke curled up gayly into the clear air . 
The dairy maids who spent the summer there tending the cattle both fell victims to the charms of little Hans , and offered him and his mother their simple hospitality . 
They told of the lumbermen who had passed the saeter huts , and inquired for her but otherwise they respected her silence , and made no attempt to pry into her secrets . 
The next morning she started , after a refreshing sleep , westward toward the coast , where she hoped in some way to find a passage to America . 
For if little Hans was really born under a lucky star which fact she now could scarcely doubt then America was the place for him . 
Inga had a well to do sister , who was a widow , in the nearest town , and she would borrow enough money from her to pay their passage to New York . 
It was early in July when little Hans and his mother arrived in New York . 
The latter had repented bitterly of her rashness in stealing her child from his father , and under a blind impulse traversing half the globe in a wild goose chase after fortune . 
Inga was just contemplating this bright vision of Hans's future , when she found herself passing through a gate , at which a clerk was seated . 
What is your name ? he asked , through an interpreter . 
Age ? Twenty eight a week after Michaelmas . 
Single or married ? Married . 
Where is your husband ? In Norway . 
Are you divorced from him ? Divorced I ! Why , no ! Who ever heard of such a thing ? Inga grew quite indignant at the thought of her being divorced . 
A dozen other questions were asked , at each of which her embarrassment increased . 
Full of humiliation and shame she met her husband at the railroad station , and prepared herself for a deluge of harsh words and reproaches . 
But instead of that he patted her gently on the head , and clasped little Hans in his arms and kissed him . 
They said very little to each other as they rode homeward in the cars but little Hans had a thousand things to tell , and his father was delighted to hear them . 
Mistake ! Why , no , cried Nils . 
What greater luck could he have than to be brought safely home to his father ? Inga had indeed hoped for more but she said nothing . 
Nevertheless , fate still had strange things in store for little Hans . 
The story of his mother's flight to and return from America was picked up by some enterprising journalist , who made a most touching romance of it . 
But Nils would hear of no adoption nor would he consent to any plan that separated him from the boy . 
Earls and baronets came every summer , with repeating rifles of the latest patent , and plaids and field glasses and portable cooking stoves , intent upon killing him . 
One summer the Crown Prince of Germany came to Norway . 
He also heard of the famous bear that no one could kill , and made up his mind that he was the man to kill it . 
Finally he discovered some tracks in the moss , like those of a barefooted man , or , I should rather say , perhaps , a man footed bear . 
The attendants ranged through the woods and beat the bushes in all directions , but Mr. Bruin was no more to be seen that afternoon . 
It was as if he had sunk into the earth not a trace of him was to be found by either dogs or men . 
It was said that he shook off bullets as a duck does water that he had the evil eye , and could bring misfortune to whomsoever he looked upon . 
The peasants dreaded to meet him , and ceased to hunt him . 
His size was described as something enormous , his teeth , his claws , and his eyes as being diabolical beyond human conception . 
Now Lars Moe himself was too old to hunt and his nephew was well , he was not old enough . 
There was , in fact , no one in the valley who was of the right age to hunt this Gausdale Bruin . 
He was the wealthiest man in the valley , and his mare Stella had been the apple of his eye . 
He felt it as a personal insult that the bear should have dared to molest what belonged to him , especially the most precious of all his possessions . 
It cut him to the heart to see the poor wounded beauty , with those cruel scratches on her thigh , and one stiff , aching leg done up in oil and cotton . 
Soon after that , Lars Moe died , as some said , from grief and chagrin though the physician affirmed that it was of rheumatism of the heart . 
No one knew who would kill the bear , or if any one would kill it . 
It was a puzzling question . 
Why , deposit it to the credit of the bear , said a jocose executor then , in the absence of other heirs , his slayer will inherit it . 
That is good old Norwegian practice , though I don't know whether it has ever been the law . 
All right , said the other executors , so long as it is understood who is to have the money , it does not matter . 
And so an amount equal to was deposited in the county bank to the credit of the Gausdale Bruin . 
Sir Barry Worthington , Bart . 
, who came abroad the following summer for the shooting , heard the story , and thought it a good one . 
So , after having vainly tried to earn the prize himself , he added another to the deposit , with the stipulation that he was to have the skin . 
But his rival for parliamentary honors , Robert Stapleton , Esq . 
So Mr. Stapleton added to the bear's bank account , with the stipulation that the skin should come to him . 
There was an odd clause in Lars Moe's will besides the codicil relating to the bear . 
on his only child , his daughter Unna , because she had displeased him by her marriage . 
Yet that was the common opinion in the valley when this singular clause became known . 
She dwelt now in a tenant's cottage , northward in the parish and her husband , who was a sturdy and fine looking fellow , eked out a living by hunting and fishing . 
But they surely had no accommodations for a broken down , wounded , trotting mare , which could not even draw a plough . 
But even granting that , one could scarcely help suspecting malice aforethought in the curious provision . 
But if it was Lars Moe's intention to convey such a message to his daughter , he failed to take into account his daughter's spirit . 
She appeared plainly but decently dressed at the reading of the will , and carried her head not a whit less haughtily than was her wont in her maiden days . 
She exhibited no chagrin when she found that Janson was her father's heir and that she was disinherited . 
She even listened with perfect composure to the reading of the clause which bequeathed to her the broken down mare . 
A little shed , or lean to , was built in the rear of the house , and Stella became a member of Thorkel Tomlevold's family . 
The mare has brought us luck , he said to his wife . 
If she can't plough , she can at all events pull the sleigh to church and you have as good a right as any one to put on airs , if you choose . 
Yes , she has brought us blessing , replied Unna , quietly and we are going to keep her till she dies of old age . 
To the children Stella became a pet , as much as if she had been a dog or a cat . 
The little boy Lars climbed all over her , and kissed her regularly good morning when she put her handsome head in through the kitchen door to get her lump of sugar . 
She was as gentle as a lamb and as intelligent as a dog . 
He grew to love this handsome and noble animal as he had loved nothing on earth except his father and mother . 
As a matter of course he heard a hundred times the story of Stella's adventure with the terrible Gausdale bear . 
It was a story that never lost its interest , that seemed to grow more exciting the oftener it was told . 
The deep scars of the bear's claws in Stella's thigh were curiously examined , and each time gave rise to new questions . 
Stella had dragged little Lars out of the river when he fell overboard from the pier and that , too , showed more sense than he had ever known a horse to have . 
There could be no doubt in his mind that Stella was an enchanted princess . 
First of all , he had to learn how to shoot and his father , who was the best shot in the valley , was very willing to teach him . 
Why not ? I don't like to talk about it but it is well known that he is enchanted . 
But will he then live for ever ? Is there no sort of bullet that will kill him ? asked the boy . 
I don't want to have anything to do with witchcraft , said Thorkel . 
Now , she was probably the very one who could tell him what he wanted to know . 
Her cottage lay close up under the mountain side , about two miles from his home . 
He did not deliberate long before going to seek this mysterious person , about whom the most remarkable stories were told in the valley . 
To his astonishment , she received him kindly , gave him a cup of coffee with rock candy , and declared that she had long expected him . 
The bullet which was to slay the enchanted bear had long been in her possession and she would give it to him if he would promise to give her the beast's heart . 
He did not have to be asked twice for that and off he started gayly with his prize in his pocket . 
It was rather an odd looking bullet , made of silver , marked with a cross on one side and with a lot of queer illegible figures on the other . 
It seemed to burn in his pocket , so anxious was he to start out at once to release the beloved Stella from the cruel enchantment . 
But Martha had said that the bear could only be killed when the moon was full and until the moon was full he accordingly had to bridle his impatience . 
It was a bright morning in January , and , as it happened , Lars's fourteenth birthday . 
To his great delight , his mother had gone down to the judge's to sell some ptarmigans , and his father had gone to fell some timber up in the glen . 
Accordingly he could secure the rifle without being observed . 
Lars was a simple hearted boy , in spite of his age , and quite a child at heart . 
The youngest son in the story book always did just that sort of thing , and everybody praised and admired him for it . 
Lars meant , for once , to put the story book hero into the shade . 
He engaged little Marit to watch over Stella while he was gone , and under no circumstances to betray him all of which Marit solemnly promised . 
Lars , who on the way had been buoyed up by the sense of his heroism , began now to feel strangely uncomfortable . 
It was so awfully hushed and still round about him not the scream of a bird not even the falling of a broken bough was to be heard . 
The pines stood in lines and in clumps , solemn , like a funeral procession , shrouded in sepulchral white . 
Lars became suddenly aware that it was a foolhardy thing he had undertaken , and that he had better betake himself home . 
Yes , to be sure , she had said that and it was a comforting thought . 
He listened for a moment tremulously , and heard distinctly long , heavy sighs from within . 
The bear was awake ! Soon he would have to face it ! A minute more elapsed Lars's heart shot up into his throat . 
He leaped down , placed himself in front of the entrance to the den , and cocked his rifle . 
Bruin had evidently gone to sleep again . 
Wild with excitement , the boy rushed forward and drove his skee staff straight into the den with all his might . 
A sullen growl was heard , like a deep and menacing thunder . 
There could be no doubt that now the monster would take him to task for his impertinence . 
Again the boy seized his rifle and his nerves , though tense as stretched bow strings , seemed suddenly calm and steady . 
He lifted the rifle to his cheek , and resolved not to shoot until he had a clear aim at heart or brain . 
Great masses of snow were shaken from the swaying tops of the firs , and fell with light thuds upon the ground . 
He was conscious of no fear , but of a curious numbness in his limbs , and strange noises , as of warning shouts and cries , filling his ears . 
Fortunately , the great glare of the sun smitten snow dazzled Bruin he advanced slowly , roaring savagely , but staring rather blindly before him out of his small , evil looking eyes . 
Suddenly , when he was but a few yards distant , he raised his great paw , as if to rub away the cobwebs that obscured his sight . 
It was the moment for which the boy had waited . 
There was a curious unreality about the whole thing to Lars . 
He scarcely knew whether he was really himself or the hero of the fairy tale . 
All that was left for him to do now was to go home and marry Stella , the delivered princess . 
The noises about him seemed to come nearer and nearer and now they sounded like human voices . 
He looked about him , and to his amazement saw his father and Marit , followed by two wood cutters , who , with raised axes , were running toward him . 
Then he did not know exactly what happened but he felt himself lifted up by two strong arms , and tears fell hot and fast upon his face . 
My boy ! my boy ! said the voice in his ears , I expected to find you dead . 
No , but the bear is dead , said Lars , innocently . 
I didn't mean to tell on you , Lars , cried Marit , but I was so afraid , and then I had to . 
The rumor soon filled the whole valley that the great Gausdale Bruin was dead , and that the boy Lars Tomlevold had killed him . 
It is needless to say that Lars Tomlevold became the parish hero from that day . 
But he dared not tell any one why he was weeping . 
This story might have ended here , but it has a little sequel . 
The , which Bruin had to his credit in the bank had increased to , and it was all paid to Lars . 
And although she never proved to be a princess , she was treated as if she were one , during the few years that remained to her . 
