But as he finds an account of the circumstances given in the Notes to Law's Memorials , by his ingenious friend , Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe , Esq . 
, and also indicated in his reprint of the Rev . 
He married Margaret , daughter to Ross of Balneel , with whom he obtained a considerable estate . 
The talents of this accomplished race were suifficient to have accounted for the dignities which many members of the family attained , without any supernatural assistance . 
But their extraordinary prosperity was attended by some equally singular family misfortunes , of which that which befell their eldest daughter was at once unaccountable and melancholy . 
Shortly after , a suitor who was favoured by Lord Stair , and still more so by his lady , paid his addresses to Miss Dalrymple . 
The young lady refused the proposal , and being pressed on the subject , confessed her secret engagement . 
The first lover , a man of very high spirit , then interfered by letter , and insisted on the right he had acquired by his troth plighted with the young lady . 
But she took care to be present in person , and argued the point with the disappointed and incensed lover with pertinacity equal to his own . 
She particularly insisted on the Levitical law , which declares that a woman shall be free of a vow which her parents dissent from . 
While the mother insisted on these topics , the lover in vain conjured the daughter to declare her own opinion and feelings . 
She remained totally overwhelmed , as it seemed mute , pale , and motionless as a statue . 
Only at her mother's command , sternly uttered , she summoned strength enough to restore to her plighted suitor the piece of broken gold which was the emblem of her troth . 
He went abroad , and returned not again . 
If the last Lord Rutherford was the unfortunate party , he must have been the third who bore that title , and who died in . 
The marriage betwixt Janet Dalrymple and David Dunbar of Baldoon now went forward , the bride showing no repugnance , but being absolutely passive in everything her mother commanded or advised . 
He said her hand , which lay on his as she held her arm around his waist , was as cold and damp as marble . 
The bridal feast was followed by dancing . 
The bride and bridegroom retired as usual , when of a sudden the most wild and piercing cries were heard from the nuptial chamber . 
It was then the custom , to prevent any coarse pleasantry which old times perhaps admitted , that the key of the nuptial chamber should be entrusted to the bridesman . 
He was called upon , but refused at first to give it up , till the shrieks became so hideous that he was compelled to hasten with others to learn the cause . 
On opening the door , they found the bridegroom lying across the threshold , dreadfully wounded , and streaming with blood . 
The bride was then sought for . 
She was found in the corner of the large chimney , having no covering save her shift , and that dabbled in gore . 
There she sat grinning at them , mopping and mowing , as I heard the expression used in a word , absolutely insane . 
The only words she spoke were , Tak up your bonny bridegroom . 
She survived this horrible scene little more than a fortnight , having been married on the th of August , and dying on the th of September . 
The unfortunate Baldoon recovered from his wounds , but sternly prohibited all inquiries respecting the manner in which he had received them . 
Thus a few years removed all the principal actors in this frightful tragedy . 
Various reports went abroad on this mysterious affair , many of them very inaccurate , though they could hardly be said to be exaggerated . 
Another daughter , he says , was supposed to be possessed with an evil spirit . 
My friend , Mr. Sharpe , gives another edition of the tale . 
According to his information , ti was the bridegroom who wounded the bride . 
I find still another account darkly insinuated in some highly scurrilous and abusive verses , of which I have an original copy . 
They are docketed as being written Upon the late Viscount Stair and his family , by Sir William Hamilton of Whitelaw . 
The marginals by William Dunlop , writer in Edinburgh , a son of the Laird of Househill , and nephew to the said Sir William Hamilton . 
This malignant satirist , who calls up all the misfortunes of the family , does not forget the fatal bridal of Baldoon . 
His hypothesis is inconsistent with the account given in the note upon Law's Memorials , but easily reconcilable to the family tradition . 
One of the marginal notes ascribed to William Dunlop applies to the above lines . 
She had betrothed herself to Lord Rutherfoord under horrid imprecations , and afterwards married Baldoon , his nevoy , and her mother was the cause of her breach of faith . 
The same tragedy is alluded to in the following couplet and note What train of curses that base brood pursues , When the young nephew weds old uncle's spouse . 
The note on the word uncle explains it as meaning Rutherfoord , who should have married the Lady Baldoon , was Baldoon's uncle . 
Some of the notes are by that curious and laborious antiquary , Robert Milne , who , as a virulent Jacobite , willingly lent a hand to blacken the family of Stair . 
He furnished the family of Baldoon , with which he appears to have been intimate , with an elegy on the tragic event in their family . 
In this piece he treats the mournful occasion of the bride's death with mysterious solemnity . 
The form of the elegy is a dialogue betwixt a passenger and a domestic servant . 
We preserve the reply of the servant as a specimen of Mr. Symson's verses , which are not of the first quality Sir , 'tis truth you've told . 
We did enjoy great mirth but now , ah me ! Our joyful song's turn'd to an elegie . 
A virtuous lady , not long since a bride , Was to a hopeful plant by marriage tied , And brought home hither . 
We did all rejoice , Even for her sake . 
Where we must leave her till the resurrection . 
'Tis then the Saints enjoy their full perfection . 
Would be too few for me to shed for him . 
His constitution was , if right I've guess'd , Blood mixt with choler , said to be the best . 
In's gesture , converse , speech , discourse , attire , He practis'd that which wise men still admire , Commend , and recommend . 
What's that ? you'll say . 
'Tis this he ever choos'd the middle way 'Twixt both th' extremes . 
He bashful was , yet daring When he saw cause , and yet therein not sparing Familiar , yet not common , for he knew To condescend , and keep his distance too . 
He us'd , and that most commonly , to go On foot I wish that he had still done so . 
Th' affairs of court were unto him well known And yet meanwhile he slighted not his own . 
Quick in his bargains , honest in commerce , Just in his dealings , being much adverse From quirks of law , still ready to refer His cause t' an honest country arbiter . 
He learned the French , be't spoken to his praise , In very little more than fourty days . 
Supposing our readers have had enough of Mr. Symson's woe , and finding nothing more in his poem worthy of transcription , we return to the tragic story . 
Accordingly , the Author has endeavoured to explain the tragic tale on this principle . 
Lord Stair , whatever might be his moral qualities , was certainly one of the first statesmen and lawyers of his age . 
The imaginary castle of Wolf's Crag has been identified by some lover of locality with that of Fast Castle . 
The Author is not competent to judge of the resemblance betwixt the real and imaginary scenes , having never seen Fast Castle except from the sea . 
We have only to add , that the death of the unfortunate bridegroom by a fall from horseback has been in the novel transferred to the no less unfortunate lover . 
CHAPTER I By Cauk and keel to win your bread , Wi' whigmaleeries for them wha need , Whilk is a gentle trade indeed To carry the gaberlunzie on . 
FEW have been in my secret while I was compiling these narratives , nor is it probable that they will ever become public during the life of their author . 
Even were that event to happen , I am not ambitious of the honoured distinction , digito monstrari . 
This I may never enjoy during my lifetime but farther than this , I am certain , my vanity should never induce me to aspire . 
I am too stubborn in habits , and too little polished in manners , to envy or aspire to the honours assigned to my literary contemporaries . 
I could not think a whit more highly of myself were I found worthy to come in place as a lion for a winter in the great metropolis . 
This proceeds from no dislike , real or affected , to the aristocracy of these realms . 
It may be otherwise with the sheets which I am now writing . 
Under his humble roof was Richard born , and to his father's humble trade was Richard , greatly contrary to his inclination , early indentured . 
Old Mr. Tinto had , however , no reason to congratulate himself upon having compelled the youthful genius of his son to forsake its natural bent . 
It was not yet permitted to write upon the plastered doorway of an alehouse , . 
Acting upon this liberal principle , publicans as yet hung forth the painted emblems of their calling , and sign painters , if they seldom feasted , did not at least absolutely starve . 
His talent for observing nature soon induced him to rectify the errors , adn soar above the instructions , of his teacher . 
Detraction , which always pursues merit with strides proportioned to its advancement , has indeed alleged that Dick once upon a time painted a horse with five legs , instead of four . 
But the cause of a deceased friend is sacred and I disdain to bottom it so superficially . 
The scales fell from his eyes on viewing the sketches of a contemporary , the Scottish Teniers , as Wilkie has been deservedly styled . 
He threw down the brush . 
took up the crayons , and , amid hunger and toil , and suspense and uncertainty , pursued the path of his profession under better auspices than those of his original master . 
Still the first rude emanations of his genius , like the nursery rhymes of Pope , could these be recovered , will be dear to the companions of Dick Tinto's youth . 
Those halcyon days were too serene to last long . 
Still , though the horizon was overclouded , no storm for some time ensued . 
Mine host had Christian faith with a lodger who had been a good paymaster as long as he had the means . 
Nothing , however , is more precarious than resources of this nature . 
There is an obstacle to my change of residence , said my friend , grasping my hand with a look of solemnity . 
There is a mode by which I can regain my liberty and to creep even through a common sewer is better than to remain in prison . 
I did not perfectly understand what my friend meant . 
The muse of painting appeared to have failed him , and what other goddess he could invoke in his distress was a mystery to me . 
I found Dick in high spirits , whistling while he buckled the small knapsack which contained his colours , brushes , pallets , and clean shirt . 
I did not suspect Dick of dealing with the devil , and by what earthly means he had extricated himself thus happily I was at a total loss to conjecture . 
He perceived my curiosity , and took me by the hand . 
A sudden thought here struck me . 
I had observed that our landlord wore , on that memorable morning , a pair of bran new velveteens instead of his ancient thicksets . 
The painting was executed on boards of a substantial thickness , and the top decorated with irons , for suspending the honoured effigy upon a signpost . 
I endeavoured to smooth the ruffled feelings of my misused and indignant friend . 
We partook of our genial host's parting banquet , and I escorted Dick on his walk to Edinburgh . 
We parted about a mile from the village , just as we heard the distant cheer of the boys which accompanied the mounting of the new symbol of the Wallace Head . 
Dick Tinto mended his pace to get out of hearing , so little had either early practice or recent philosophy reconciled him to the character of a sign painter . 
In Edinburgh , Dick's talents were discovered and appreciated , and he received dinners and hints from several distinguished judges of the fine arts . 
But these gentlemen dispensed their criticism more willingly than their cash , and Dick thought he needed cash more than criticism . 
But poor Dick was doomed to lose the field he fought so gallantly . 
But they soon tired of poor Tinto , and laid him down as a load , upon the principle on which a spoilt child throws away its plaything . 
The memory of Tinto is dear to me , from the recollection of the many conversations which we have had together , most of them turning upon my present task . 
there is nothing in whole pages but mere chat and dialogue . 
Dick was not a whit staggered by my argument , which he contended was founded on misrepresentation . 
When Dick Tinto had thus spoken , he rummaged his portfolio for the sketch from which he proposed one day to execute a picture of fourteen feet by eight . 
I vindicated my claim to the usual allowance of visual organs . 
I replied That I admired the sketch exceedingly but that to understand its full merit , I felt it absolutely necessary to be informed of the subject . 
Do you really presume to form such a bold conjecture ? said Tinto . 
Those with which I was most struck were the ruins of an ancient castle in which that Elizabeth chamber , as you call it , once existed . 
Well , lord , we have not got that which we have 'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled , Being opposites of such repairing nature . 
Its ancient proprietors were a race of powerful and warlike carons , who bore the same name with the castle itself , which was Ravenswood . 
Their history was frequently involved in that of Scotland itself , in whose annals their feats are recorded . 
It was frequently beseiged with ardour , and defended with obstinacy , and , of course , its owners played a conspicuous part in story . 
Abb's Head and the village of Eyemouth , looked out on the lonely and boisterous German Ocean . 
A black domain of wild pasture land surrounded their new residence , and formed the remains of their property . 
Lord Ravenswood , the heir of this ruined family , was far from bending his mind to his new condition of life . 
He was now called Lord Ravenswood only in courtesy . 
This was the very man who had now become , by purchase , proprietor of Ravenswood , and the domains of which the heir of the house now stood dispossessed . 
He was descended of a family much less ancient than that of Lord Ravenswood , and which had only risen to wealth and political importance during the great civil wars . 
Thus qualified and gifted , he was a dangerous antagonist to the fierce and imprudent Ravenswood . 
Whether he had given him good cause for the enmity with which the Baron regarded him , was a point on which men spoke differently . 
But the greater part of the public , prone to slander the wealthy in their absence as to flatter them in their presence , held a less charitable opinion . 
The character of the times aggravated these suspicions . 
In those days there was no king in Israel . 
Since the departure of James VI . 
James's chanced to prevail , the delegated powers of sovereignty were alternately swayed . 
The evils attending upon this system of government resembled those which afflict the tenants of an Irish estate , the property of an absentee . 
Thus , even sovereigns remarkable for usurpation and tyranny have been found rigorous in the administration of justice among their subjects , in cases where their own power and passions were not compromised . 
It is very different when the powers of sovereignty are delegated to the head of an aristocratic faction , rivalled and pressed closely in the race of ambition by an adverse leader . 
His brief and precarious enjoyment of power must be employed in rewarding his partizans , in extending his incluence , in oppressing and crushing his adversaries . 
The administration of justice , in particular , was infected by the most gross partiality . 
One corruption led the way to others still mroe gross and profligate . 
The subordinate officers of the law affected little scruple concerning bribery . 
She had been beautiful , and was stately and majestic in her appearance . 
Endowed by nature with strong powers and violent passions , experience had taught her to employ the one , and to conceal , if not to moderate , the other . 
Her character had always been beyond the breath of slander . 
And yet , with all these qualities to excite respect , Lady Ashton was seldom mentioned in the terms of love or affection . 
Their union was crowned with several children , of whom three survived . 
His son witnessed his dying agonies , and heard the curses which he breathed against his adversary , as if they had conveyed to him a legacy of vengeance . 
Other circumstances happened to exasperate a passion which was , and had long been , a prevalent vice in the Scottish disposition . 
Banner after banner , with the various devices and coats of this ancient family and its connexions , followed each other in mournful procession from under the low browed archway of the courtyard . 
The principal gentry of the country attended in the deepest mourning , and tempered the pace of their long train of horses to the solemn march befitting the occasion . 
Trumpets , with banners of crape attached to them , sent forth their long and melancholy notes to regulate the movements of the procession . 
He clapped his hand on his sword , and bidding the official person to desist at his peril from farther interruption , commanded the clergyman to proceed . 
The scene was worthy of an artist's pencil . 
Around stood the relations of the deceased , their countenances more in anger than in sorrow , and the drawn swords which they brandished forming a violent contrast with their deep mourning habits . 
He stept to the youth and offered his assistance , which , by a mute motion , Edgar Ravenswood rejected . 
Firmly , and without a tear , he performed that last duty . 
The stone was laid on the sepulchre , the door of the aisle was locked , and the youth took possession of its massive key . 
As the crowd left the chapel , he paused on the steps which led to its Gothic chancel . 
Gentlemen and friends , he said , you have this day done no common duty to the body of your deceaesd kinsman . 
But it is well that I know from what quiver this arrow has come forth . 
The fortunes of the heir of Ravenswood were too low to brave the farther hostility which they imagined these open expressions of resentment must necessarily provoke . 
Their apprehensions , however , proved groundless , at least in the immediate consequences of this affair . 
It was the custom , however , and on the present occasion it was fully observed . 
The wine did its office on all but the Master of Ravenswood , a title which he still retained , though forfeiture had attached to that of his father . 
To a mind naturally of a gloomy cast here was ample room for meditation , and the musings of young Ravenswood were deep and unwitnessed . 
Alas ! what fiend can suggest more desperate counsels than those adopted under the guidance of our own violent and unresisted passions ? CHAPTER III . 
Over Gods forebode , then said the King , That thou shouldst shoot at me . 
William Bell , Clim 'o the Cleugh , etc . 
Young Ravenswood , he muttered , is now mine he is my own he has placed himself in my hand , and he shall bend or break . 
This boy he has left behind him this Edgar this hot headed , hare brained fool , has wrecked his vessel before she has cleared the harbor . 
I must see that he gains no advantage of some turning tide which may again float him off . 
These memoranda , properly stated to the privy council , cannot but be construed into an aggravated riot , in which the dignity both of the civil and ecclesiastical authorities stands committed . 
I know Athole promised his interest to old Ravenswood , and here is his son already bandying and making a faction by his own contemptible influence . 
At length , on the eve of a costly banquet , Ravenswood , who had watched his opportunity , introduced himself into the castle with a small band of faithful retainers . 
The serving of the expected feast was impatiently looked for by the guests , and clamorously demended by the temporary master of the castle . 
The explosion of the conspiracy took place upon the signal , and the usurper and his followers were put to death . 
In passing through a large Gothic ante room , Sir William Ashton heard the sound of his daughter's lute . 
Music , when the performers are concealed , affects us with a pleasure mingled with surprise , and reminds us of the natural concert of birds among the leafy bowers . 
The statesman , though little accustomed to give way to emotions of this natural and simple class , was still a man and a father . 
The sounds ceased , and the Keeper entered his daughter's apartment . 
Her locks , which were of shadowy gold , divided on a brow of exquisite whiteness , like a gleam of broken and pallid sunshine upon a hill of snow . 
Yet her passiveness of disposition was by no means owing to an indifferent or unfeeling mind . 
Left to the impulse of her own taste and feelings , Lucy Ashton was peculiarly accessible to those of a romantic cast . 
her secret delight was in the old legendary tales of ardent devotion and unalterable affection , chequered as they so often are with strange adventures and supernatural horrors . 
This was her favoured fairy realm , and here she erected her aerial palaces . 
But it was only in secret that she laboured at this delusive though delightful architecture . 
But in her exterior relations to things of this world , Lucy willingly received the ruling impulse from those around her . 
This was eminently the case with Lucy Ashton . 
Her politic , wary , and wordly father felt for her an affection the strength of which sometimes surprised him into an unusual emotion . 
Her elder brother , who trode the path of ambition with a haughtier step than his father , had also more of human affection . 
A soldier , and in a dissolute age , he preferred his sister Lucy even to pleasure and to military preferment and distinction . 
To these details , however trivial , Lucy lent patient and not indifferent attention . 
They moved and interested Henry , and that was enough to secure her ear . 
Her mother alone did not feel that distinguished and predominating affection with which the rest of the family cherished Lucy . 
My Sholto , she said , will support the untarnished honour of his maternal house , and elevate and support that of his father . 
Poor Lucy is unfit for courts or crowded halls . 
It was not so , however , that our house was raised , nor is it so that it can be fortified and augmented . 
The Lord Keeper's dignity is yet new it must be borne as if we were used to its weight , worthy of it , and prompt to assert and maintain it . 
Before ancient authorities men bend from customary and hereditary deference in our presence they will stand erect , unless they are compelled to prostrate themselves . 
The hour will be a happy one which disposes her hand in marriage to some one whose energy is greater than her own , or whose ambition is of as low an order . 
So meditated a mother to whom the qualities of her children's hearts , as well as the prospect of their domestic happiness , seemed light in comparison to their rank and temporal greatness . 
In fact , Lucy's sentiments seemed chill because nothing had occurred to interest or awaken them . 
Going to shoot us a piece of venison , Norman ? said his master , as he returned the woodsman's salutation . 
Saul , your honour , and that I am . 
The forester shrugged his shoulders . 
It was a disheartening thing , he said , when none of the gentles came down to see the sport . 
But we hae lost a' sense of woodcraft on this side of the hill . 
But the master of the game is , in all country houses , a man of great importance , and entitled to use considerable freedom of speech . 
Your honour is the bad paymaster , he said , who pays before it is done . 
I guess it is some law phrase but sue a beggar , and your honour knows what follows . 
Well , but I will be just with you , and if bow and brach fail not , you shall have a piece of game two fingers fat on the brisket . 
Brave ! brave enough , I warrant you , answered Norman . 
He was but sixteen then , bless his heart ! And is he as ready with the gun as with the couteau ? said Sir William . 
Good morrow , good Norman . 
There's bucks and raes on Bilhope braes , There's a herd on Shortwood Shaw But a lily white doe in the garden goes , She's fairly worth them a' . 
But if you want to know anything of the former family , Old Alice is the best authority . 
Pshaw , child ! replied her father , yet immediately added And who is Old Alice ? I think you know all the old women in the country . 
She is blind , poor old soul , but when she speaks to you , you would think she has some way of looking into your very heart . 
I am sure I often cover my face , or turn it away , for it seems as if she saw one change colour , though she has been blind these twenty years . 
She is worth visiting , were it but to say you have seen a blind and paralytic old woman have so much acuteness of perception and dignity of manners . 
I assure you , she might be a countess from her language and behaviour . 
Come , you must go to see Alice we are not a quarter of a mile from her cottage . 
But it was against her will , I fancy for the poor old creature is always regretting the change of times and of property . 
I am much obliged to her , answered the Lord Keeper . 
She has nothing mercenary about her , and would not accept a penny in charity , if it were to save her from being starved . 
Do , sir , come and see Old Alice . 
And with the freedom of an indulged daughter she dragged the Lord Keeper in the direction she desired . 
The hut itself was constructed of turf and stones , and rudely roofed over with thatch , much of which was in a dilapidated condition . 
The thin blue smoke rose from it in a light column , and curled upward along the white face of the incumbent rock , giving the scene a tint of exquisite softness . 
Her figure was tall , commanding , and but little bent by the infirmities of old age . 
She seemed in a ruminating posture , soothed , perhaps , by the murmurs of the busy tribe around her to abstraction , though not to slumber . 
Lucy undid the latch of the little garden gate , and solicited the old woman's attention . 
My father , Alice , is come to see you . 
He is welcome , Miss Ashton , and so are you , said the old woman , turning and inclining her head towards her visitors . 
I believe so , my lord , she replied I feel the air breathe milder than of late . 
Babie , said her mistress , offer some bread and honey to the Lord Keeper and Miss Ashton they will excuse your awkwardness if you use cleanliness and despatch . 
The bread and honey , however , deposited on a plantain leaf , was offered and accepted in all due courtesy . 
You have been long a resident on this property ? he said , after a pause . 
You are not , I should judge by your accent , of this country originally ? said the Lord Keeper , in continuation . 
No I am by birth an Englishwoman . 
Yet you seem attached to this country as if it were your own . 
It is here , replied the blind woman , that I have drank the cup of joy and of sorrow which Heaven destined for me . 
I had no ocuntry but theirs while they lived I have none but theirs now they are no more . 
It will last my time , my dear Miss Lucy , said the blind woman I would not have my lord give himself the least trouble about it . 
You have probably witnessed many changes , said the Lord Keeper but your experience must have taught you to expect them . 
It has taught me to endure them , my lord , was the reply . 
Yet you knew that they must needs arrive in the course of years ? said the statesman . 
Do not suppose , said the Lord Keeper , that you will lose any interest with me for looking back with regret to the days when another family possessed my estates . 
You had reason , doubtless , to love them , and I respect your gratitude . 
I will order some repairs in your cottage , and I hope we shall live to be friends when we know each other better . 
Those of my age , returned the dame , make no new friends . 
I thank you for your bounty , it is well intended undoubtedly but I have all I want , and I cannot accept more at your lordship's hand . 
I remember I recollect , said his lordship , somewhat confused . 
I perceive you are too much attached to your old friends to accept any benefit from their successor . 
The Lord Keeper looked at her in some surprise , but said not a word . 
My lord , she continued , in an impressive and solemn tone , take care what you do you are on the brink of a precipice . 
Indeed ? said the Lord Keeper , his mind reverting to the political circumstances of the country . 
My warning is of another kind . 
You have driven matters hard with the house of Ravenswood . 
Believe a true tale they are a fierce house , and there is danger in dealing with men when they become desperate . 
Ay , but they may think otherwise , and take the law into their own hand , when they fail of other means of redress . 
What mean you ? said the Lord Keeper . 
Young Ravenswood would not have recourse to personal violence ? God forbid I should say so ! I know nothing of the youth but what is honourable and open . 
Honourable and open , said I ? I should have added , free , generous , noble . 
But he is still a Ravenswood , and may bide his time . 
Remember the fate of Sir George Lockhart . 
The Lord Keeper started as she called to his recollection a tragedy so deep and so recent . 
The old woman proceeded Chiesley , who did the deed , was a relative of Lord Ravenswood . 
In the hall of Ravenswood , in my presence and in that of others , he avowed publicly his determination to do the cruelty which he afterwards committed . 
I could not keep silence , though to speak it ill became my station . 
'You are devising a dreadful crime , I said , 'for which you must reckon before the judgment seat . 
Never shall I forget his look , as he replied , 'I must reckon then for many things , and will reckon for this also . 
Therefore I may well say , beware of pressing a desperate man with the hand of authority . 
There is blood of Chiesley in the veins of Ravenswood , and one drop of it were enough to fire him in the circumstances in which he is placed . 
I say , beware of him . 
The old dame had , either intentionally or by accident , harped aright the fear of the Lord Keeper . 
And having hastily uttered these expressions , he rose and left the place without waiting for a reply . 
CHAPTER V. Is she a Capulet ? O dear account ! my life is my foe's debt . 
SHAKESPEARE THE Lord Keeper walked for nearly a quarter of a mile in profound silence . 
Why do you look so pale , Lucy ? said her father , turning suddenly round and breaking silence . 
Of these animals , the descendants of the savage herds which anciently roamed free in the Caledonian forests , . 
it was formerly a point of state to preserve a few in the parks of the Scottish nobility . 
Specimens continued within the memory of man to be kept at least at three houses of distinction Hamilton , namely , Drumlanrig , and Cumbernauld . 
A few , if I mistake not , are still preserved at Chillingham Castle , in Northumberland , the seat of the Earl of Tankerville . 
On the present occasion , however , she speedily found cause for real terror . 
This was the most injudicious course he could have adopted , for , encouraged by the appearance of flight , the bull began to pursue them at full speed . 
Assailed by a danger so imminent , firmer courage than that of the Lord Keeper might have given way . 
But paternal tenderness , love strong as death , sustained him . 
The Lord Keeper had no weapons his age and gravity dispensed even with the usual appendage of a walking sword could such appendage have availed him anything . 
Lucy lay senseless on the ground , insensible of the wonderful deliverance which she had experience . 
Her father was almost equally stupified , so rapid and unexpected had been the transition from the horrid death which seemed inevitable to perfect security . 
This instantly recalled him to a sense of their situation a glance at his daughter reminded him of the necessity of procuring her assistance . 
He called to the man , whom he concluded to be one of his foresters , to give immediate attention to Miss Ashton , while he himself hastened to call assistance . 
The huntsman approached them accordingly , and the Lord Keeper saw he was a stranger , but was too much agitated to make any farther remarks . 
The man to whose timely itnerference they had been so much indebted did not seem inclined to leave his good work half finished . 
Tradition , always busy , at least in Scotland , to grace with a legendary tale a spot in itself interesting , had ascribed a cause of peculiar veneration to this fountain . 
A beautiful young lady met one of the Lords of Ravenswood while hunting near this spot , and , like a second Egeria , had captivated the affections of the feudal Numa . 
She always appeared and disappeared close by the fountain , with which , therefore , her lover judged she had some inexplicable connexion . 
She placed certain restrictions on their intercourse , which also savoured of mystery . 
Raymond of Ravenswood acquiesced in the experiment , not incurious concerning the issue , though confident it would disappoint the expectations of the hermit . 
At the appointed hour the lovers met , and their interview was protracted beyond that at which they usually parted , by the delay of the priest to ring his usual curfew . 
From this period the house of Ravenswood was supposed to have dated its decay . 
Others imagined thatthe tale had a more remote origin in the ancient heathen mythology . 
Clair to cross the Ord on a Monday . 
It was on this ominous spot that Lucy Ashton first drew breath after her long and almost deadly swoon . 
The firts moment of recollection brought to her mind the danger which had overpowered her senses the next called to remembrance that of her father . 
She looked around he was nowhere to be seen . 
My father , my father ! was all that she could ejaculate . 
Sir William is safe , answered the voice of a stranger perfectly safe , adn will be with you instantly . 
Are you sure of that ? exclaimed Lucy . 
The bull was close by us . 
Do not make yourself anxious on his account Fate has singularly preserved him . 
You , madam , are exhausted , and must not think of rising until you have some assistance more suitable than mine . 
Lucy , whose senses were by this time more effectually collected , was naturally led to look at the stranger with attention . 
A shooting dress of dark cloth intimated the rank of the wearer , though concealed in part by a large and loose cloak of a dark brown colour . 
You mistake him , said Lucy , earnestly he will be grateful for my sake and for his own . 
You do not know my father , or you are deceiving me with a story of his safety , when he has already fallen a victim to the fury of that animal . 
But , without heeding this intimation , Lucy took him at his word . 
Lucy , my dear Lucy , are you safe ? are you well ? were the only words that broke from him as he embraced her in ecstasy . 
There was a dead pause of surprise , not unmixed with less pleasant feleings . 
The Master of Ravenswood ! said the Lord Keeper , when he had recovered his momentary astonishment . 
Hasten after him stop him beg him to speak to me for a single moment . 
The two foresters accordingly set off in pursuit of the stranger . 
They speedily reappeared , and , in an embarrassed and awkward manner , said the gentleman would not return . 
The Lord Keeper took one of the fellows aside , and questioned him more closely what the Master of Ravenswood had said . 
He just said he wadna come back , said the man , with the caution of a prudent Scotchman , who cared not to be the bearer of an unpleasant errand . 
He said something more , sir , said the Lord Keeper , and I insist on knowing what it was . 
That's none of your concern , sir I desire to hear the very words . 
Very well , sir , said the Lord Keeper , I believe he alludes to a wager we have on our hawks it is a matter of no consequence . 
He turned to his daughter , who was by this time so much recovered as to be able to walk home . 
Lucy Ashton , in short , was involved in those mazes of the imagination which are most dangerous to the young and the sensitive . 
But Alice did not in this particular gratify her wishes and expectations . 
She spoke readily , and with pathetic feeling , concerning the family in general , but seemed to observe an especial and cautious silence on the subject of the present representative . 
The little she said of him was not altogether so favourable as Lucy had anticipated . 
Had he nourished such black revenge as Alice's dark hints seemed to indicate , no deed of active guilt was necessary to the full gratification of that evil passion . 
Satisfied on this topic , he proceeded to revise the memoranda which he had taken down from the mouth of the person employed to interrupt the funeral service of the late Lord Ravenswood . 
He preached to his colleagues of the privy council the necessity of using conciliatory measures with young men , whose blood and temper were hot , and their experience of life limited . 
He did not hesitate to attribute some censure to the conduct of the officer , as having been unnecessarily irritating . 
These were the contents of his public despatches . 
The letters which he wrote to those private friends into whose management the matter was likely to fall were of a yet more favourable tenor . 
And , finally , assuming the language of a generous and high spirited man , he made it his particular request that this affair should be passed over without severe notice . 
There was much surprise among Sir William Ashton's political friends and colleagues on receiving letters of a tenor so unexpected . 
It runs strangely in my mind , my lords , that none of these advices contain the root of the matter . 
But no secret letters of a contrary nature had been received , although the question seemed to imply the possibility of their existence . 
A wilful man maun hae his way , answered the old counsellor . 
The Keeper will rue this before year and day are out , said a third the Master of Ravenswood is the lad to wind him a pirn . 
Why , what would you do , my lords , with the poor young fellow ? said a noble Marquis present . 
The Lord Keeper has got all his estates he has not a cross to bless himself with . 
On which the ancient Lord Turntippet replied If he hasna gear to fine , He ha shins to pine . 
And that was our way before the Revolution Lucitur cum persona , qui luere non potest cum crumena . 
Hegh , my lords , that's gude law Latin . 
Agree , agree remit to the Lord Keeper , with any other person for fashion's sake Lord Hirplehooly , who is bed ridden one to be a quorum . 
Make your entry in the minutes , Mr. Clerk . 
And now , my lords , there is that young scattergood the Laird of Bucklaw's fine to be disposed upon . 
And so we close the scene on the privy council of that period . 
For this are all these warriors come , To hear an idle tale And o'er our death accustom'd arms Shall silly tears prevail ? HENRY MACKENZIE . 
was placed on the table , and each had his quaigh or bicker before him . 
But there was little appearance of conviviality . 
With folded arms , and looks of anxious expectation , they eyed each other in silence , each wrapt in his own thoughts , and holding no communication with his neighbour . 
At length the younger broke silence by exclaiming What the foul fiend can detain the Master so long ? He must have miscarried in his enterprise . 
Yopu are but a craven after all , Craigengelt , answered the younger , and that's what many folk have thought you before now . 
But what you mean to make of this poor fellow Ravenswood , I know not . 
I have lost credit of late , by bringing over no one that had sense to know more than how to unharbour a stag , or take and reclaim an eyas . 
The Master has education , sense , and penetration . 
And yet is not wise enough to escape the tricks of a kidnapper , Craigengelt ? replied the younger man . 
He has always distrusted me but I watched my time , and struck while his temper was red hot with the sense of insult and of wrong . 
He goes now to expostulate , as he says , and perhaps thinks , with Sir William Ashton . 
At any rate , he will give him such a bullying as will be construed into an assault on a privy councillor so there will be a total breach betwixt him and government . 
Scotland will be too hot for him France will gain him and we will all set sail together in the French brig 'L'Espoir , which is hovering for us off Eyemouth . 
I doubt our own merits will procure us slender preferment and I trust he will send a ball through the Keeper's head before he joins us . 
One or two of these scoundrel statesmen should be shot once a year , just to keep the others on their good behaviour . 
No , no , not a single word like accession , replied Bucklaw you know too well the risk belonging to these two terrible words , 'art and part . 
Then , as if to himself , he recited the following lines The dial spoke not , but it made shrewd signs , And pointed full upon the stroke of murder . 
What is that you are talking to yourself ? said Craigengelt , turning back with some anxiety . 
Nothing , only two lines I have heard upon the stage , replied his companion . 
Bucklaw , said Craigengelt , I sometimes think you should have been a stage player yourself all is fancy and frolic with you . 
I have often thought so myself , said Bucklaw . 
I believe it would be safer than acting with you in the Fatal Conspiracy . 
But away , play your own part , and look after the horses like a groom as you are . 
A play actor a stage player ! he repeated to himself that would have deserved a stab , but that Craigengelt's a coward . 
And yet I should like the profession well enough . 
When I rush on , sure none will dare to stay 'Tis love commands , and glory leads the way . 
As with a voice of thunder , and his hand upon his sword , Bucklaw repeated the ranting couplets of poor Lee , Craigengelt re entered with a face of alarm . 
We are undone , Bucklaw ! The Master's led horse has cast himself over his halter in the stable , and is dead lame . 
His hackney will be set up with the day's work , and now he has no fresh horse he will never get off . 
Egad , there will be no moving with the speed of lightning this bout , said Bucklaw , drily . 
But stay , you can give him yours . 
What ! and be taken myself ? I thank you for the proposal , said Craigengelt . 
True , true , answered the other , with embarrassment but consider my commission from Saint Germains . 
Which many men think is a commission of your own making , noble Captain . 
Well , if you will not give him your horse , why , d n it , he must have mine . 
Depend on it , the chase will be hard after Ravenswood . 
I wish we had made our place of rendezvous nearer to the coast . 
On my faith , then , said Bucklaw , I had best go off just now , and leave my horse for him . 
Stay stay , he comes I hear a horse's feet . 
Are you sure there is only one ? said Craigengelt . 
I fear there is a chase I think I hear three or four galloping together . 
I am sure I hear more horses than one . 
Pooh , pooh , it is the wench of the house clattering to the well in her pattens . 
By my faith , Captain , you should give up both your captainship and your secret service , for you are as easily scared as a wild goose . 
But here comes the Master alone , and looking as gloomy as a night in November . 
The Master of Ravenswood entered the room accordingly , his cloak muffled around him , his arms folded , his looks stern , and at the same time dejected . 
He flung his cloak from him as he entered , threw himself upon a chair , and appeared sunk in a profound reverie . 
What has happened ? What have you done ? was hastily demanded by Craigengelt and Bucklaw in the same moment . 
Nothing ! was the short and sullen answer . 
Seen him and come away without settling scores which have been so long due ? said Bucklaw I would not have expected that at the hand of the Master of Ravenswood . 
No matter what you expected , replied Ravenswood it is not to you , sir , that I shall be disposed to render any reason for my conduct . 
Patience , Bucklaw , said Craigengelt , interrupting his companion , who seemed about to make an angry reply . 
The Master has been interrupted in his purpose by some accident but he must excuse the anxious curiosity of friends who are devoted to his cause like you and me . 
Friends , Captain Craigengelt ! retorted Ravenswood , haughtily I am ignorant what familiarity passed betwixt us to entitle you to use that expression . 
I have altered my mind , and do not design to leave the country this season . 
Not to leave the country , Master ! exclaimed Craigengelt . 
And accordingly he tendered a purse with some gold in it to the soi disant captain . 
But here Bucklaw interposed in his turn . 
Besides forfeiting the friendship , said Bucklaw , of at least one man of spirit and honour . 
Gentlemen , said Ravenswood , permit me once more to assure you that you have been pleased to attach to our temporary connexion more importance than I ever meant that it should have . 
With these words , and without waiting for an answer , he left the apartment , remounted his horse , and was heard to ride off . 
Mortbleu ! said Captain Craigengelt , my recruit is lost ! Ay , Captain , said Bucklaw , the salmon is off with hook and all . 
But I will after him , for I have had more of his insolence than I can well digest . 
Craigengelt offered to accompany him but Bucklaw replied No , no , Captain , keep you the check of the chimney nook till I come back it's good sleeping in a haill skin . 
Little kens the auld wife that sits by the fire , How cauld the wind blaws in hurle burle swire . 
And singing as he went , he left the apartment . 
This brief delay he had made up by hard galloping , and now overtook ths Master where the road traversed a waste moor . 
Halt , sir , cried Bucklaw I am no political agent no Captain Craigengelt , whose life is too important to be hazarded in defence of his honour . 
I am Frank Hayston of Bucklaw , and no man injures me by word , deed , sign , or look , but he must render me an account of it . 
Our roads homeward , as well as our roads through life , lie in different directions there is no occasion for us crossing each other . 
Is there not ? said Bucklaw , impetuously . 
By Heaven ! but I say that there is , though you called us intriguing adventurers . 
Be correct in your recollection , Mr. Hayston it was to your companion only I applied that epithet , and you know him to be no better . 
And what then ? He was my companion for the time , and no man shall insult my companion , right or wrong , while he is in my company . 
Go home , sir sleep , and have more reason in your wrath to morrow . 
Not so , Master , you have mistaken your man high airs and wise saws shall not carry it off thus . 
Besides , you termed me bully , and you shall retract the word before we part . 
Faith , scarcely , said Ravenswood , unless you show me better reason for thinking myself mistaken than you are now producing . 
Neither will be necessary , said Ravenswood I am satisfied with what I have done to avoid an affair with you . 
If you are serious , this place will serve as well as another . 
Dismount then , and draw , said Bucklaw , setting him an example . 
I always thought and said you were a pretty man I should be sorry to report you otherwise . 
You shall have no reason , sir , said Ravenswood , alighting , and putting himself into a posture of defence . 
Take your life , sir , said the Master of Ravenswood , and mend it if you can . 
I thank you for my life , Master , he pursued . 
There is my hand I bear no ill will to you , either for my bad luck or your better swordsmanship . 
The Master looked steadily at him for an instant , then extended his hand to him . 
Bucklaw , he said , you are a generous fellow , and I have done you wrong . 
I heartily ask your pardon for the expression which offended you it was hastily and incautiously uttered , and I am convinced it is totally misapplied . 
Not when I have well considered them , said the Master . 
Then you are a little wiser than I am , for I always give my friend satisfaction first , and explanation afterwards . 
If one of us falls , all accounts are settled if not , men are never so ready for peace as after war . 
But what does that bawling brat of a boy want ? said Bucklaw . 
I wish to Heaven he had come a few minutes sooner ! and yet it must have been ended some time , and perhaps this way is as well as any other . 
That will I , Bucklaw , said Ravenswood ride home to Wolf's Crag with me . 
There are places in the old tower where you might lie hid , were a thousand men to seek you . 
But that will bring you into trouble yourself , Master and unless you be in the Jacobite scrape already , it is quite needless for me to drag you in . 
Not a whit I have nothing to fear . 
And now that we have drawn bridle a bit , said Bucklaw , I would fain ask you a question , Master . 
Ask and welcome , said Ravenswood , but forgive not answering it , unless I think proper . 
And what made you break off from us at the nearest ? again demanded Bucklaw . 
Because I had changed my mind , said the Master , and renounced my enterprise , at least for the present . 
My grand aunt , Lady Girnington , has taen a new tack of life , I think , and I could only hope to get something by a change of government . 
I dare say , by this time , he has told a dozen pretty stories of me to the government . 
And this is what I have got by wine , women , and dice , cocks , dogs , and horses . 
Yes , Bucklaw , said the Master , you have indeed nourished in your bosom the snakes that are now stinging you . 
I must not , answered the Master of Ravenswood , challenge the freedom of speech in which I have set example . 
It is better breaking a park pale to watch a doe or damsel than to shoot an old man . 
I deny the purpose , said the Master of Ravenswood . 
On my soul , I had no such intention I meant but to confront the oppressor ere I left my native land , and upbraid him with his tyranny and its consequences . 
I would have stated my wrongs so that they would have shaken his soul within him . 
Yes , answered Bucklaw , and he would have collared you , and cried 'help , and then you would have shaken the soul OUT of him , I suppose . 
Your very look and manner would have frightened the old man to death . 
And you , Master , might have turned out a murd a homicide , just out of pure respect for your father's memory . 
There is more sense in your language , Bucklaw , replied the Master , than might have been expected from your conduct . 
Did you ever hear the expression of the English divine ? said Ravenswood 'Hell is paved with good intentions , as much as to say , they are more often formed than executed . 
Well , replied Bucklaw , but I will begin this blessed night , and have determined not to drink above one quart of wine , unless your claret be of extraordinary quality . 
You will find little to tempt you at Wolf's Crag , said the Master . 
Long may it be ere provision is needed for the like purpose , answered Bucklaw but you should not drink up the last flask at a dirge there is ill luck in that . 
There is ill luck , I think , in whatever belongs to me , said Ravenswood . 
But yonder is Wolf's Crag , and whatever it still contains is at your service . 
A wilder or more disconsolate dwelling it was perhaps difficult to conceive . 
But follow me cautiously the road is narrow , and admits only one horse in front . 
By adopting the cautious mode of approach recommended by the proprietor of this wild hold , they entered the courtyard in safety . 
The old man must be departed , he began to say , or fallen into some fit for the noise I have made would have waked the seven sleepers . 
At length a timid and hesitating voice replied Master Master of Ravenswood , is it you ? Yes , it is I , Caleb open the door quickly . 
It is I , you old fool , answered Ravenswood , in bodily shape and alive , save that I am half dead with cold . 
The tardiness of his descent extracted some exclamations of impatience from Ravenswood , and several oaths from his less patient and more mecurial companion . 
Caleb again paused ere he unbolted the door , and once more asked if they were men of mould that demanded entrance at this time of night . 
Were I near you , you old fool , said Bucklaw , I would give you sufficient proofs of MY bodily condition . 
Is it you , my dear master ? is it you yourself , indeed ? exclaimed the old domestic . 
Mysie Mysie , woman ! stir for dear life , and get the fire mended take the auld three legged stool , or ony thing that's readiest that will make a lowe . 
Mysie , kill the brood hen without thinking twice on it let them care that come ahint . 
Oh , never mind the outside of the house , my good friend , said Bucklaw let's see the inside , and let our horses see the stable , that's all . 
A' gaes wrang when the Master's out bye but I'll take care o' your cattle mysell . 
I think you had better , said Ravenswood , otherwise I see little chance of their being attended to at all . 
Well , well , never mind , said his master go to the stable . 
Very well , said Ravenswood , taking the lamp from his domestic's unwilling hand , I will show the stranger upstairs myself . 
If I were disposed to jest at the calamities of my house , said Ravenswood , as he led the way upstairs , poor old Caleb would furnish me with ample means . 
But though the tower is none of the largest , I shall have some trouble without him to find the apartment in which there is a fire . 
As he spoke thus , he opened the door of the hall . 
Here , at least , he said , there is neither hearth nor harbour . 
It was indeed a scene of desolation . 
Nothing , in short , remained that indicated wealth all the signs were those of recent wastefulness and present desolation . 
The seats thrown down , or left in disorder , intimated the careless confusion which had concluded the mournful revel . 
Shelter and safety , I think , I can promise you . 
Excellent matters , Master , replied Bucklaw , and , with a mouthful of food and wine , positively all I can require tonight . 
I fear , said the Master , your supper will be a poor one I hear the matter in discussion betwixt Caleb and Mysie . 
Accordingly , Caleb Balderstone entered the apartment , little aware that so much of his by play had been audible there . 
Well , Caleb , my old friend , is there any chance of supper ? said the Master of Ravenswood . 
CHANCE of supper , your lordship ? said Caleb , with an emphasis of strong scorn at the implied doubt . 
The fat capon , Mysie ! he added , calling out as boldly as if such a thing had been in existence . 
Quite unnecessary , said Bucklaw , who deemed himself bound in courtesy to relieve some part of the anxious butler's perplexity , if you have anything cold , or a morsel of bread . 
Caleb in the mean while waited on them with grave officiousness , as if anxious to make up , by his own respectful assiduity , for the want of all other attendance . 
But if your ale is bad , you can let us have some wine , said Bucklaw , making a grimace at the mention of the pure element which Caleb so earnestly recommended . 
There never was lack of wine at Wolf's Crag . 
Do fetch us some then , said the master , instead of talking about it . 
Still , however , Caleb was too good a general to renounce the field without a strategem to cover his retreat . 
The hearth in hall was black and dead , No board was dight in bower within , Nor merry bowl nor welcome bed Here's sorry cheer , quoth the Heir of Linne . 
The Master , however , had this advantage over the spendthrift in the legend , that , if he was in similar distress , he could not impute it to his own imprudence . 
Perhaps this melancholy yet consolatory reflection crossed the mind of the unfortunate young nobleman with a breathing of comfort . 
He now felt himself able to analyse the different feelings by which he was agitated , and much resolved to combat and to subdue them . 
With such scenes of calm sublimity the human heart sympathises even in its most disturbed moods , and deeds of honour and virtue are inspired by their majestic influence . 
The very recollection of Caleb's beverage has done more to suppress my longing to open the day with a morning draught than twenty sermons would have done . 
And you , master , have you been able to give battle valiantly to your bosom snake ? You see I am in the way of smothering my vipers one by one . 
I have commenced the battle , at least , Bucklaw , adn I have had a fair vision of an angel who descended to my assistance , replied the Master . 
Here the old man was employed busily in the doubtful task of burnishing a pewter flagon until it should take the hue and semblance of silver plate . 
Take this , said the Master of Ravenswood , and get what is necessary for the family . 
And with these words he gave to the old butler the purse which had on the preceding evening so narrowly escaped the fangs of Craigengelt . 
Before that day domes , said Caleb , I doubt there will be an end of an auld sang , and an auld serving man to boot . 
But it disna become me to speak that gate to your honour , adn you looking sae pale . 
He spoke to a premier too busy in devising ways and means to puzzle himself with refuting the arguments offered against their justice or expediency . 
For doos , there's the doocot there will be poultry amang the tenants , though Luckie Chirnside says she has paid the kain twice ower . 
We'll mak shift , an it like your honour we'll mak shift keep your heart abune , for the house sall haud its credit as lang as auld Caleb is to the fore . 
They had indeed occasion to seize on every circumstance that might serve to diversify or enliven time , which otherwise passed away so heavily . 
Bucklaw , shut out from his usual field sports and joyous carouses by the necessity of remaining concealed within the walls of the castle , became a joyless and uninteresting companion . 
The first sight of Lucy Ashton had been less impressive than her image proved to be upon reflection . 
Even young Ravenswood's strength of moral feeling and rectitude of purpose at once increased the danger of cherishing these recollections , and the propensity to entertain them . 
There already existed in his bosom two contradictory passions a desire to revenge the death of his father , strangely qualified by admiration of his enemy's daughter . 
Against the former feeling he had struggled , until it seemed to him upon the wane against the latter he used no means of resistance , for he did not suspect its existence . 
That this was actually the case was chiefly evinced by his resuming his resolution to leave Scotland . 
Yet , though such was his purpose , he remained day after day at Wolf's Crag , without taking measures for carrying it into execution . 
What fate what revolution ? inquired his compation . 
We have had one revolution too much already , I think . 
Ravenswood interrupted him by putting into his hands a letter . 
Oh , answered Bucklaw , my dream's out . 
It was my Lord of A 's courier , said Ravenswood , who was doomed to experience his ostentatious hospitality , which I believe ended in sour beer and herrings . 
Read , and you will see the news he has brought us . 
I will as fast as I can , said Bucklaw but I am no great clerk , nor does his lordship seem to be the first of scribes . 
But what sayeth the proverb , verbum sapienti a word is more to him that hath wisdom than a sermon to a fool . 
And in which hope we heartily write ourself , Right Honourable , Your loving cousin , A . 
Given from our poor house of B , etc . 
Superscribed For the right honourable , and our honoured kinsman , the Master of Ravenswood These , with haste , haste , post haste ride and run until these be delivered . 
What think you of this epistle , Bucklaw ? said the Master , when his companion had hammered out all the sense , and almost all the words of which it consisted . 
Truly , that the Marquis's meaning is as great a riddle as his manuscript . 
He is really in much need of Wit's Interpreter , or the Complete Letter Writer , and were I you , I would send him a copy by the bearer . 
His plot ! Then you suppose it is a treasonable business , answered Ravenswood . 
What else can it be ? replied Bucklaw the Marquis has been long suspected to have an eye to Saint Germains . 
That will nto be in our days , Master the iron has entered too deeply into our sides and our souls . 
It will be , however , one day , replied the Master men will not always start at these nicknames as at a trumpet sound . 
As social life is better protected , its comforts will become too dear to be hazarded without some better reasons than speculative politics . 
Oh , that is the thing that would wanton me . 
I suspect he alludes to a revolution in the Scottish privy council , rather than in the British kingdoms . 
But to think justly will certainly go some length in helping me to act so . 
But hark ! I hear Caleb tolling the dinner bell . 
Uncover , Caleb ! uncover , for Heaven's sake ! said Bucklaw let us have what you can give us without preface . 
What have we got here , Caleb ? inquired the Master in his turn . 
But touching your present dinner , I judged that this being St . 
for his honour's especial use . 
In the morning Bucklaw rushed into his host's apartment with a loud halloo , which might have awaked the dead . 
Pschaw , pshaw ! replied his guest get up get up the hounds are abroad . 
Get up , Master I say the hounds are out get up , I say the hunt is up . 
And I say , said the Master , rising slowly , that nothing can concern me less . 
Lord Brittlebrains would weel to remember what his folk have been . 
And what we now are , said the Master , with suppressed bitterness of feeling . 
But reach me my cloak , Caleb , and I will indulge Bucklaw with a sight of this chase . 
It is selfish to sacrifice my guest's pleasure to my own . 
Well , well , Caleb , replied the Master , help me on with my cloak , and hand me my sword belt . 
Alas ! Caleb , we should want little if your ability were equal to your will , replied the Master . 
And there he has brought out your lordship's palfrey , without the saddle being decored wi' the broidered sumpter cloth ! and I could have brushed it in a minute . 
It is all very well , said his master , escaping from him and descending the narrow and steep winding staircase which led to the courtyard . 
It MAY be a' very weel , said Caleb , somewhat peevishly but if your lordship wad tarry a bit , I will tell you what will NOT be very weel . 
And what is that ? said Ravenswood , impatiently , but stopping at the same time . 
Or any other lie that cam uppermost , I suppose ? said his master . 
Good bye , Caleb I commend your care for the honour of the family . 
Animated by the natural impetuosity and fire of his temper , young Bucklaw rushed on with the careless speed of a whirlwind . 
Your horse is blown , said the man , with a complaisance seldom used in a hunting field . 
Might I crave your honour to make use of mine ? Sir , said Ravenswood , more surprised than pleased at such a proposal . 
I really do not know how I have merited such a favour at a stranger's hands . 
I'll take the devil out of him for you . 
Now , Master , do you ride mine , which will carry you like an eagle . 
And throwing the rein of his own horse to the Master of Ravenswood , he sprung upon that which the stranger resigned to him , and continued his career at full speed . 
And the owner's name is ? asked Ravenswood . 
Your honour must excuse me , you will learn that from himself . 
The straggling riders began now to rally towards the scene of action , collecting from different points as to a common centre . 
The hunters came up one by one , and watched an opportunity to assail him with some advantage , which , in such circumstances , can only be done with caution . 
, he did at length summon up resolution enough to give the fair huntress good time of the day , and trust that her sport had answered her expectation . 
I am afraid , sir , said the young lady , and her smile was scarce concealed by her vizard , I shall have little use for such careful preparation . 
This polite proffer was seconded by his mistress . 
But these jovial sounds fell sadly on the ear of the ruined nobleman . 
This personage seemed stricken in years . 
He wore a scarlet cloak , buttoning high upon his face , and his hat was unlooped and slouched , probably by way of defence against the weather . 
His horse , a strong and steady palfrey , was calculated for a rider who proposed to witness the sport of the day rather than to share it . 
An attendant waited at some distance , and the whole equipment was that of an elderly gentleman of rank and fashion . 
He accosted Ravenswood very politely , but not without some embarrassment . 
You seem a gallant young gentleman , sir , he said , and yet appear as indifferent to this brave sport as if you had my load of years on your shoulders . 
I think , said the stranger , one of my attendants had the sense to accommodate your friend with a horse . 
I was much indebted to his politeness and yours , replied Ravenswood . 
My friend is Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw , whom I dare say you will be sure to find in the thick of the keeest sportsmen . 
The Master of Ravenswood , having thus expressed himself , began to move homeward , with the manner of one who has taken leave of his company . 
But the stranger was not so to be shaken off . 
The stranger did not long remain silent . 
Ravenswood answered this observation with a cold and distant assent . 
It was , as I have heard , continued the stranger , unabashed by his coldness , one of the most early possessions of the honourable family of Ravenswood . 
Their earliest possession , answered the Master , and probably their latest . 
I am the heir of that unfortunate house I am the Master of Ravenswood . 
And you , sir , who seem to be a gentleman of fashion and education , must be sensible that the next mortification after being unhappy is the being loaded with undesired commiseration . 
But , ere he could disengage himself from his companion , the young lady we have already mentioned came up to join the stranger , followed by her servants . 
Daughter , said the stranger to the unmasked damesl , this is the Master of Ravenswood . 
He was , or believed himself , obliged in courtesy to take hold of her bridle , and assist her in managing the unruly animal . 
But the old gentleman , his self constituted companion , did not allow him to recede from the invitation , which he had rather suffered to be implied than directly expressed . 
There was no room to retreat . 
The Master of Ravenswood led the way , continuing to keep hold of the lady's bridle to prevent her horse from starting at some unexpected explosion of thunder . 
Silence , Balderstone ! said Ravenswood , sternly your folly is unseasonable . 
Sir and madam , he said , turning to his guests , this old man , and a yet older and more imbecile female domestic , form my whole retinue . 
But there was now no opportunity of receding from the situation in which he had placed himself . 
The measures which he took to execute this dauntless resolution , the reader shall learn in the next chapter . 
HAYSTON of Bucklaw was one of the thoughtless class who never hesitate between their friend and their jest . 
Praise be blest ! said Caleb to himself , ae leaf of the muckle gate has been swung to wi' yestreen's wind , and I think I can manage to shut the ither . 
He waited , therefore , with impatience until his master had shown his two principal guests into the Tower , and then commenced his operations . 
, Caleb Balderstone hesitated to carry finesse so far as direct falsehood , and was content to deceive , if possible , without directly lying . 
But Caleb was not in a humour to understand or admit any distinctions . 
He stuck to his original proposition with that dogged but convenient pertinacity which is armed against all conviction , and deaf to all reasoning . 
Bucklaw now came from the rear of the party , and demanded admittance in a very angry tone . 
But the resolution of Caleb was immovable . 
But to this also Caleb turned a deaf ear . 
He'll ken himsell better the morn's morning . 
It sets the like o' him , to be bringing a crew of drunken hunters here , when he kens there is but little preparation to sloken his ain drought . 
And he disappeared from the window , leaving them all to digest their exclusion as they best might . 
But another person , of whose presence Caleb , in the animation of the debate , was not aware , had listened in silence to its progress . 
This was the principal domestic of the stranger a man of trust and consequence the same who , in the hunting field , had accommodated Bucklaw with the use of his horse . 
On arriving at the change house of the village of Wolf's Hope , he unexpectedly met with an acquaintance just alighting from his horse . 
Pooh ! pooh ! they dared not keep me a week of days in durance . 
A certain person has better friends among them than you wot of , and can serve a friend when it is least likely . 
Then I suppose you call yourself my friend , Captain Craigengelt ? said Bucklaw . 
Thou art never without money , however thou comest by it . 
Ay , say you so ? said Bucklaw , pausing , for his natural penetration led him to susprect some extraordinary motive lay couched under an excess of generosity . 
L'un n'empeche pas l'autre , said Craigengelt . 
Touch and try the gold is good as ever was weighed . 
Long life to Bucklaw ! shouted the men of the chase . 
And confusion to him that takes his share of the sport , and leaves the hunters as dry as a drumhead , added another , by way of corollary . 
And with this conclusion , which was unanimously agreed to by all who heard it , they rushed tumultuously into the house of entertainment , where they revelled till a late hour . 
A very different scene was in the mean time passing in the Tower of Wolf's Crag . 
But not all his skill and labour , in disposing to advantage the little furniture which remained , could remove the dark and disconsolate appearance of those ancient and disfurnished walls . 
You have nothing to fear , sir , said Ravenswood , gravely this roof retains the means of giving protection , though not welcome . 
The darkness of the sky seemed to increase , as if to supply the want of those mufflings which he laid aside with such evident reluctance . 
The impatience of Ravenswood increased also in proportion to the delay of the stranger , and he appeared to struggle under agitation , though probably from a very different cause . 
He laboured to restrain his desire to speak , while the stranger , to all appearance , was at a loss for words to express what he felt necessary to say . 
At length Ravenswood's impatience broke the bounds he had imposed upon it . 
I perceive , he said , that Sir William Ashton is unwilling to announced himself in the Castle of Wolf's Crag . 
My daughter and I are alike grateful for this opportunity of thanking the brave man to whom she owes her life and I mine . 
The hatred which divided the great families in the feudal times had lost little of its bitterness , though it no longer expressed itself in deeds of open violence . 
His looks glanced from the father to the daughter with an irresolution of which Sir William Ashton did not think it proper to await the conclusion . 
He had now disembarrassed himself of his riding dress , and walking up to his daughter , he undid the fastening of her mask . 
Lucy , my love , he said , raising her and leading her towards Ravenswood , lay aside your mask , and let us express our gratitude to the Master openly and barefaced . 
Every object might have been for an instant seen distinctly . 
It might seem as if the ancient founder of the castle were bestriding the thunderstorm , and proclaiming his displeasure at the reconciliation of his descendant with the enemy of his house . 
The consternation was general , and it required the efforts of both the Lord Keeper and Ravenswood to keep Lucy from fainting . 
But a flush of less soft expression , a look much more habitual to his features , resumed predominance when he mentioned how meanly he was provided for the entertainment of his guests . 
All this we understand but if you mention inconvenience , you will oblige us to seek accommodations in the hamlet . 
As the Master of Ravenswood was about to reply , the door of the hall opened , and Caleb Balderstone rushed in . 
THE thunderbolt , which had stunned all who were within hearing of it , had only served to awaken the bold and inventive genius of the flower of majors domo . 
I say , ye auld deevil , skirl skirl louder louder , woman gar the gentles hear ye in the ha' . 
I have heard ye as far off as the Bass for a less matter . 
And stay down wi' that crockery And with a sweeping blow , he threw down from a shelf some articles of pewter and earthenware . 
He exalted his voice amid the clatter , shouting and roaring in a manner which changed Mysie's hysterical terrors of the thunder into fears that her old fellow servant was gone distracted . 
Lay it on thick , and never mind expenses . 
I'll awa' up to the la' . 
Make a' the confusion ye can but be sure ye keep out the strange servant . 
Willawins ! willawins ! Such a misfortune to befa' the house of Ravenswood , and I to live to see it . 
Caleb saw his advantage , and resolved to improve it . 
Their mirth for a scene which we read with little emotion often appears extremely ludicrous to the spectators made the old vault ring again . 
If there was as little in your honours' wames as there is in Caleb Balderstone's , less caickling wad serve ye on sic a gravaminous subject . 
I pat my fingers in it , and it tastes as like sour milk as ony thing else if that isna the effect of thunner , I kenna what is . 
Now , possibly Mr. Lockhard's talent may consist in finding some substitute for that which certainly is not , and has in all probability never been . 
They hae been ill advised in the matter of the duty eggs and butter , I winna deny that . 
Do go consult together , said the Master go down to the village , and do the best you can . 
We must not let our guests remain without refreshment , to save the honour of a ruined family . 
And here , Caleb , take my purse I believe that will prove your best ally . 
Caleb and I must both learn , madam , to undergo with good humour , or at least with patience , the ridicule which everywhere attaches itself to poverty . 
You do yourself injustice , Master of Ravenswood , on my word of honour , answered his elder guest . 
In the mean time , I can conceive nothing so respectable as the spirit which rises above misfortune , and prefers honourable privations to debt or dependence . 
In short , he appeared at once pushed on by his desire of appearing friendly , and held back by the fear of intrusion . 
Upon consulting with old Mysie , the accommodations for the night were easily completed , as indeed they admitted of little choice . 
For the rest , Lockhard had his master's orders to bring some venison from the inn , and Caleb was to trust to his wits for the honour of his family . 
Couldna he hae slippit it gently into my hand ? said Caleb but his honour will never learn how to bear himsell in siccan cases . 
, Then had I with you homely sufferaunce . 
IT was not without some secret misgivings that Caleb set out upon his exploratory expedition . 
In fact , it was attended with a treble difficulty . 
The village which they now approached had frequently afforded the distressed butler resources upon similar emergencies but his relations with it had been of late much altered . 
, and the few inhabitants gained a precarious subsistence by manning two or three fishing boats in the herring season , and smuggling gin and brandy during the winter months . 
Caleb loved the memory and resented the downfall of that authority , which mimicked , on a petty scale , the grand contributions exacted by the feudal sovereigns . 
They resembled a man that has been long fettered , who , even at liberty , feels in imagination the grasp of the handcuffs still binding his wrists . 
The inhabitants of Wolf's Hope began to grumble , to resist , and at length positively to refuse compliance with the exactions of Caleb Balderstone . 
An unanimous grin intimated the assent of the assembly . 
A day was accordingly fixed for holding a grand palaver at Wolf's Hope on the subject of Caleb's requisitions , and he was invited to attend at the hamlet for that purpose . 
The issue of the debate proved the reality of his apprehensions . 
The writer stuck to the contents of his feu charters he could not see it 'twas not in the bond . 
He had , indeed , in a manner vowed that the deil should have him , if ever he put the print of his foot within its causeway again . 
He had hitherto kept his word and , strange to tell , this secession had , as he intended , in some degree , the effect of a punishment upon the refractory feuars . 
It was a dreadful degradation but necessity was equally imperious and lawless . 
With these feelings he entered the street of the village . 
But he could not recollect an inhabitant of a mind so constructed . 
Our kail is like to be cauld eneugh too , he reflected , as the chorus of Cauld Kail in Aberdeen again reached his ears . 
I hae had mony a day's daffing wi' Jean's mither , and they say she bides on wi' them . 
Reverse of the sad menage at the Castle of Wolf's Crag , a bickering fire roared up the cooper's chimney . 
The sight and scent of such a land of plenty almost wholly overcame the drooping spirits of Caleb . 
But if some o' that gude cheer does not find its way to Wolf's Crag this night , my name is not Caleb Balderstone . 
So resolving , he entered the apartment , and , in all courteous greeting , saluted both the mother and the daughter . 
Both the dames were , therefore , at once about old Caleb's neck , setting up their throats together by way of welcome . 
Ay , sirs , Mr. Balderstone , and is this you ? A sight of you is gude for sair een . 
We hae killed a wether , and ane o' our lads has been out wi' his gun at the moss ye used to like wild fowl . 
Hout , never mind the English pock puddings , said Luckie Lightbody try our puddings , Mr. Balderstone there is black pudding and white hass try whilk ye like best . 
Ne'er a bit but she looks far better than when she married Gilbert , and then she was the bonniest lass in our parochine and the neist till't . 
But gawsie cow , goodly calf . 
And what news at the castle ? quo' the gudewife . 
Hout tout ! it wad tak a man a day to answer a' your questions , and I hae hardly a minute . 
Ay ! Whig and a mountain man , nae less ! said Caleb , with a peevishness he could not suppress . 
, or ony honest woman in like circumstances . 
Ay , ay , and does he guide the gear too ? said Caleb , to whose projects masculine rule boded little good . 
Ilka penny on't but he'll dress her as dink as a daisy , as ye see sae she has little reason to complain where there's ane better aff there's ten waur . 
Aweel , gudewife , said Caleb , crestfallen , but not beaten off , that wasna the way ye guided your gudeman bt ilka land has its ain lauch . 
I aye telled the gudeman ye meant weel to him but he taks the tout at every bit lippening word . 
Aweel , I'll stay the last minute I can . 
But , Jean fie , woman , dinna ye hear the bairn greet ? I'se warrant it's that dreary weid has come ower't again . 
When Caleb saw the coast fairly clear , he took an invigorating pinch of snuff , to sharpen and confirm his resolution . 
ere he got to cover , and toss him in a blanket . 
THE face of the little boy , sole witness of Caleb's infringement upon the laws at once of property and hospitality , would have made a good picture . 
What garr'd ye let the roast burn , ye ill clerkit gude for nought ? I dinna ken , said the boy . 
And where's that ill deedy gett , Giles ? I dinna ken , blubbered the astonished declarant . 
Hands aff is fair play we maunna heed a bit flyting . 
The tramp of horses now announced the arrival of the cooper , with the minister . 
They had no sooner dismounted than they made for the kitchen fire , for the evening was cool after the thunderstorm , and the woods wet and dirty . 
They arena dished , Gilbert , said his wife but but an accident What accident ? said Girder , with flashing eyes . 
I gied them to an acquaintance of mine , Gibbie Girder and what about it now ? Her excess of assurance struck Girder mute for an instant . 
Girder's wrath foamed over all restraint . 
Am I no to chastise my ain wife ? exclaimed the cooper very indignantly . 
Ye may chastise your ain wife if ye like , answered Dame Lightbody but ye shall never lay finger on my daughter , and that ye may found upon . 
Worthless ! exclaimed the cooper . 
A better guse never walkit on stubble two finer , dentier wild ducks never wat a feather . 
Be it sae , neighbour , rejoined the minister but see what superfluities are yet revolving before your fire . 
Sir William Ashton at Wolf's Crag ! ejaculated the astonished man of hoops and staves . 
And hand and glove wi' Lord Ravenswood , added Dame Lightbody . 
Doited idiot ! that auld , clavering sneckdrawer wad gar ye trow the moon is made of green cheese . 
The Lord Keeper and Ravenswood ! they are cat and dog , hare and hound . 
The gudewife says naething but what's true , maister , said Girder's foreman , who had come in during the fray . 
I saw the Lord Keeper's servants drinking and driving ower at Luckie Sma'trash's , ower bye yonder . 
And is their maister up at Wolf's Crag ? said Girder . 
Ay , troth is he , replied his man of confidence . 
And friends wi' Ravenswood ? It's like sae , answered the foreman , since he is putting up wi' him . 
Do sae , Will and come here , I'll tell ye what to do when ye owertake him . 
He relieved the females of his presence , and gave Will his private instructions . 
Never fash your beard , Mr. Bide the Bent , replied Girder ane canna get their breath out here between wives and ministers . 
I ken best how to turn my ain cake . 
Jean , serve up the dinner , and nae mair about it . 
Nor did he again allude to the deficiency in the course of the evening . 
Meantime , the foreman , mounted on his master's steed , and charged with his special orders , pricked swiftly forth in pursuit of the marauder Caleb . 
That personage , it may be imagined , did not linger by the way . 
Meanwhile , alleging the necessity of being at Wolf's Crag as soon as possible , he pushed on so fast that his companions could scarce keep up with him . 
I have heard somewhere a story of an elderly gentleman who was pursued by a bear that had gotten loose from its muzzle , until completely exhausted . 
Caleb heard all this without rendering any answer , except that of all great men from Louis XIV . 
The foreman , having received his orders , rode on and having deposited the casks in the deserted and ruinous porter's lodge , he returned unquestioned by any one . 
WE left Caleb Balderstone in the extremity of triumph at the success of his various achievements for the honour of the house of Ravenswood . 
When he had mustered and marshalled his dishes of divers kinds , a more royal provision had not been seen in Wolf's Crag since the funeral feast of its deceased lord . 
I wish , he said I wish that may answer , Mr. Lockhard . 
There are auld prophecies about this house I wad like ill to see fulfilled wi' my auld een , that has seen evil eneugh already . 
Pshaw ! never mind freits , said his brother butler if the young folk liked ane anither , they wad make a winsome couple . 
But , to say truth , there is a leddy sits in our hall neuk , maun have her hand in that as weel as in every other job . 
But there's no harm in drinking to their healths , and I will fill Mrs. Mysie a cup of Mr. Girder's canary . 
While they thus enjoyed themselves in the kitchen , the company in the hall were not less pleasantly engaged . 
It has been often remarked , that when a man commences by acting a character , he frequently ends by adopting it in good earnest . 
But Ravenswood was insensible to neither . 
All deficiencies passed unobserved , or , if they did not escape notice , it was to praise the substitutes which Caleb had contrived to supply the want of the usual accommodations . 
The hour of repose arrived . 
The Keeper and his daughter retired to their apartments , which were decored more properly than could have been anticipated . 
, one filled with canary wine , the other with brandy . 
But the Lord Keeper prevented his host's departure . 
I have but one word to say to the Master of Ravenswood , Mr. Caleb , and I fancy he will excuse your waiting . 
Master of Ravenswood , said Sir William Ashton , with some embarrassment , I hope you understand the Christian law too well to suffer the sun to set upon your anger . 
The Master blushed and replied , He had no occasion that evening to exercise the duty enjoined upon him by his Christian faith . 
I could wish , my lord , said Ravenswood , agitated by suppressed emotion , that reference to these circumstances should be made anywhere rather than under my father's roof . 
I should have felt the delicacy of this appeal at another time , said Sir William Ashton , but now I must proceed with what I mean to say . 
It is true , said Ravenswood , after a moment's reflection , I have heard my father say your lordship had proposed a personal interview . 
Proposed , my dear Master ? I did indeed propose it but I ought to have begged , entreated , beseeched it . 
He put his handkerchief to his eyes . 
Ravenswood also was moved , but awaited in silence the progress of this extraordinary communication . 
My lord , said the Master of Ravenswood , it is unnecessary to pursue this topic farther . 
What the law will give you , or has given you , you enjoy or you shall enjoy neither my father nor I myself would have received anything on the footing of favour . 
Favour ! No , you misunderstand me , resumed the Keeper or rather you are no lawyer . 
A right may be good in law , and ascertained to be so , which yet a man of honour may not in every case care to avail himself of . 
I am sorry for it , my lord , said the Master . 
Nay , nay , retorted his guest , you speak like a young counsellor your spirit goes before your wit . 
There are many things still open for decision betwixt us . 
Ravenswood hurried into the hall , where he was to spend the night , and for a time traversed its pavement with a disordered and rapid pace . 
His mortal foe was under his roof , yet his sentiments towards him were neither those of a feudal enemy nor of a true Christian . 
He cursed himself , as he hurried to and fro in the pale moonlight , and more ruddy gleams of the expiring wood fire . 
He threw open and shut the latticed windows with violence , as if alike impatient of the admission and exclusion of free air . 
At length , however , the torrent of passion foamed off its madness , and he flung himself into the chair which he proposed as his place of repose for the night . 
Let us parley with the victors of the day , as if we had been besieged in our fortress , and without hope of relief . 
This man may be other than I have thought him and his daughter but I have resolved not to think of her . 
He wrapt his cloak around him , fell asleep , and dreamed of Lucy Ashton till daylight gleamed through the lattices . 
New Way to Pay Old Debts . 
to that of Elizabeth , by the frank avowal , that he was born of the willow , not of the oak . 
His time serving disposition was well known , and excited the contempt of the more daring leaders of both factions in the state . 
He did not , however , feel so strong or so confident as to neglect any means of drawing recruits to his standard . 
The acquisition of the Lord Keeper was deemed of some importance , and a friend , perfectly acquainted with his circumstances and character , became responsible for his political conversion . 
So soon as the Marquis's political agent found how the wind sate , he began to insinuate fears and doubts of another kind , scarce less calculated to affect the Lord Keeper . 
He inquired with seeming interest , whether the proceedings in Sir William's complicated litigation with the Ravenswood family were out of court , and settled without the possibility of appeal . 
The Lord Keeper answered in the affirmative but his interrogator was too well informed to be imposed upon . 
This course came instead of an appeal to the old Scottish Parliament , or , as it was technically termed , a protestation for remeid in law . 
That would be a sight worth seeing , said the Keeper , scornfully . 
And yet , said his friend , such things have been seen ere now , and in our own time . 
Scott of Scotsarvet's Staggering State of Scots Statesmen , of which curious memoir you showed me a manuscript , has been outstaggered in our time . 
And so , if these Ravenswood cases be called over the coals in the House of Peers , you will find that the Marquis will have a crow to pluck with you . 
The Lord Keeper now saw the full drift of his friend's argument , but he was too cautious to return any positive answer . 
to such a degree that she would have perilled the interest of her own house to have the prospect of altogether crushing that of her enemy . 
But Lady Ashton was now absent . 
But as this plot had been foreseen , the messenger returned by a different and distant road , and thus escaped the snare that was laid for him . 
But this was a blessing which the Lord Keeper , who had lived under another system , could not have the means of foreseeing . 
In the loss of his political consequence , he anticipated the loss of his lawsuit . 
The timidity of his temper induced him to adopt measures of compromise and conciliation . 
The affair of the wild bull , properly managed , might , he thought , be made to facilitate a personal communication and reconciliation betwixt the Master and himself . 
A reconciliation with Ravenswood was likely to give him an opportunity to play his own game with the Marquis of A . 
Here he found the lord of the mansion absent , but was couteously received by the lady , who expected her husband's immediate return . 
She expressed her particular delight at seeing Miss Ashton , and appointed the hounds to be taken out for the Lord Keeper's special amusement . 
Lockhard had his orders to endeavour on his part to make some acquaintance with the inmates of the castle , and we have seen how he played his part . 
The accidental storm did more to further the Lord Keeper's plan of forming a personal acquaintance with young Ravenswood than his most sanguine expectations could have anticipated . 
His fear of the young nobleman's personal resentment had greatly decreased since he considered him as formidable from his legal claims and the means he might have of enforcing them . 
All these thoughts thronged upon him when he took possession of the secret chamber . 
He resolved to watch events , to take advantage of circumstances as they occurred , and regulate his conduct accordingly . 
In this spirit of temporising policy , he at length composed his mind to rest . 
A slight note I have about me for you , for the delivery of which you must excuse me . 
It is an offer that friendship calls upon me to do , and no way offensive to you , since I desire nothing but right upon both sides . 
WHEN Ravenswood and his guest met in the morning , the gloom of the Master's spirit had in part returned . 
But the ice being once broken , the Lord Keeper was resolved it should not have time against to freeze . 
Thus , thought Sir William , I shall have all the grace of appearing perfectly communicative , while my party will derive very little advantage from anything I may tell him . 
It is not in this place , he said , that I can hear Sir William Ashton's explanation of the matters in question between us . 
It is not here , where my father died of a broken heart , that I can with decency or temper investigate the cause of his distress . 
I might remember that I was a son , and forget the duties of a host . 
Any time , the Lord Keeper said , any place , was alike to those who sought nothing but justice . 
Sir William Ashton , answered the Master , with warmth , the lands which you now occupy were granted to my remote ancestor for services done with his sword against the English invaders . 
And you , my dear Master , answered Sir William you , permit me to say , have been equally misrepresented to me . 
I shall still have my sword and my cloak , and can follow the profession of arms wherever a trumpet shall sound . 
When their eyes encountered each other , both blushed deeply , conscious of some strong internal emotion , an shunned again to meet each other's looks . 
Sir William Ashton had , of course , closely watched the expression of their countenances . 
I need fear , said he internally , neither Parliament nor protestation I have an effectual mode of reconciling myself with this hot tempered young fellow , in case he shall become formidable . 
The present object is , at all events , to avoid committing ourselves . 
But Providence had prepared a dreadful requital for this keen observer of human passions , who had spent his life in securing advantages to himself by artfully working upon the passions of others . 
Caleb Balderstone now came to announce that breakfast was prepared for in those days of substantial feeding , the relics of the supper simply furnished forth the morning meal . 
Neither did he forget to present to the Lord Keeper , with great reverence , a morning draught in a large pewter cup , garnished with leaves of parsley and scurvy grass . 
In Edinburgh like enough , said Ravenswood but in what place , or for what purpose , I am afraid neither you nor I know . 
Aweel ! said Caleb , peevishly , there's a man standing at the gate already this morning that's ae thing that I ken . 
What ! do you suppose him to be a messenger come to arrest me for debt ? said Ravenswood . 
A messenger arrest your honour for debt , and in your Castle of Wolf's Crag ! Your honour is jesting wi' auld Caleb this morning . 
When the Master had recognised him , he ordered the gates to be opened . 
I suppose , he said , Captain Craigengelt , there are no such weighty matters betwixt you and me , but may be discussed in this place . 
I have company in the castle at present , and the terms upon which we last parted must excuse my asking you to make part of them . 
Craigengelt , although possessing the very perfection of impudence , was somewhat abashed by this unfavourable reception . 
Let it be short , sir , said the Master , for that will be the best apology . 
It is impossible , replied the Master he cannot be such a fool as to interpret actual necessity as an insult . 
Be satisfied of that , and oblige me with your departure . 
Then , Master , you will at least cause to be returned to Hayston , by my hands , his property which is remaining in your possession . 
A castle indeed ! he continued , looking around him why , this is worse than a coupe gorge house , where they receive travellers to plunder them of their property . 
Recovering him , however , with the bridle , he pushed for the gate , and rode sharply back again in the direction of the village . 
Upon what account ? said the Master of Ravenswood , with some interest . 
The question led immediately to a tale which the Lord Keeper had been very anxious to introduce , when he could find a graceful and fitting opportunity . 
He took hold of the Master's arm , and led him back towards the hall . 
The answer to your question , he said , though it is a ridiculous business , is only fit for your own ear . 
THE Lord Keeper opened his discourse with an appearance of unconcern , marking , however , very carefully , the effect of his communication upon young Ravenswood . 
My Lord Keeper , said the Master , I think you would not jest on such a subject yet it seems impossible you can be in earnest . 
Innocence , said the Lord Keeper , is also confident , and sometimes , though very excusably , presumptuously so . 
I do not understand , said Ravenswood , how a consciouness of innocence can be , in any case , accounted presumtuous . 
I have known a rogue , for this very reason , make a better defence than an innocent man could have done in the same circumstances of suspicion . 
Allow me to beg you will return to the point , said the Master you seemed to say that I had suffered under some suspicion . 
Suspicion , Master ! Ay , truly , and I can show you the proofs of it if I happen only to have them with me . 
Fetch me the little private mail with the padlocks , that I recommended to your particular charge , d'ye hear ? Yes , my lord . 
Lockhard vanished and the Keeper continued , as if half speaking to himself . 
I think the papers are with me I think so , for , as I was to be in this country , it was natural for me to bring them with me . 
After perusing these papers , the Master of Ravenswood remained for a minute or two with his hand pressed against his brow , in deep and profound meditation . 
The statesman received these acknowledgments at first with well feigned surprise , and then with an affectation of frank cordiality . 
The tears began already to start from Lucy's blue eyes at viewing this unexpected and moving scene . 
Pshaw ! said the Lord Keeper , each of us acted in his own way you as a gallant soldier , I as an upright judge and privy councillor . 
The Master had been remarked among his contemporaries for sense and acuteness , as well as for his reserved , pertinacious , and irascible character . 
But they had been heard and registered in the book of fate . 
His eyes glistened as he looked upon a couple who were obviously becoming attached , and who seemed made for each other . 
It must be owned , if such was the case , he was long and severely punished for an offence of very brief duration . 
After some pause , the Lord Keeper resumed the conversation . 
The scoundrel ! said Ravenswood . 
My connexion with him was of the most temporary nature possible and yet I was very foolish to hold any communication with him at all . 
I am obliged to my honourable friend and yet , shaking the Lord Keeper's hand and yet I am still more obliged to my honourable enemy . 
He is old enough to govern himself , answered the Master . 
Old enough , perhaps , but scarce wise enough , if he has chosen this fellow for his fidus Achates . 
Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw , said the master , is , I believe , a most honourable man , and capable of nothing that is mean or disgraceful . 
Capable of much that is unreasonable , though that you must needs allow , master . 
Six heirs portioners have successively died to make her wealthy . 
I know the estates well they march with my own a noble property . 
I am glad of it , said Ravenswood , and should be more so , were I confident that Bucklaw would change his company and habits with his fortunes . 
This appearance of Craigengelt , acting in the capacity of his friend , is a most vile augury for his future respectability . 
He is a bird of evil omen , to be sure , said the Keeper , and croaks of jail and gallows tree . 
But I see Mr. Caleb grows impatient for our return to breakfast . 
Sir , stay at home and take an old man's counsel Seek not to bask you by a stranger's hearth Our own blue smoke is warmer than their fire . 
Domestic food is wholesome , though 'tis homely , And foreign dainties poisonous , though tasteful . 
He's nae belly god , that's ae blessing and Bucklaw's gane , that could have eaten a horse behind the saddle . 
Cresses or water purpie , and a bit ait cake , can serve the Master for breakfast as weel as Caleb . 
Then for dinner there's no muckle left on the spule bane it will brander , though it will brander very weel . 
The mercy of Heaven forbid ! said the old serving man , turning as pal as the table cloth which he was folding up . 
And what of all this , Balderstone ? said the Master what can it possibly have to do with my paying some ordinary civility to a neighbour . 
But keep your ain state wi' them I ken the race o' them weel they will think the mair o' ye . 
Oh , that it should e'er have been fulfilled in my time ! And what is it , Caleb ? said Ravenswood , wishing to soothe the fears of his old servant . 
Caleb replied He had never repeated the lines to living mortal they were told to him by an auld priest that had been confessor to Lord Allan's father when the family were Catholic . 
Truce with your nonsense , and let me hear the doggerel which has put it into your head , said the Master , impatiently . 
We have done eneugh for them and to do mair would be mair against the credit of the family than in its favour . 
My father and I saw them from the tower struggling against the advancing tide , and they were lost long before any help could reach them . 
Caleb's brain was now fully engaged with abuse of the English soldiery and excisemen , so that his master found no great difficulty in escaping from him and rejoining his guests . 
All was now ready for their departure and one of the Lord Keeper's grooms having saddled the Master's steed , they mounted in the courtyard . 
there's three gowd pieces and ye'll want siller up bye yonder . 
Keep these to yourself , my old friend and , once more , good day to you . 
I assure you , I have plenty . 
You know you have managed that our living should cost us little or nothing . 
In the mean time the party pursued their route joyfully . 
Having once taken his resolution , the Master of Ravenswood was not of a character to hesitate or pause upon it . 
The Lord Keeper was much struck with his depth of observation , and the unusual improvement which he had derived from his studies . 
But alas ! Here his argument was stopped by the consciousness that Lady Ashton was not always reasonable , in his sense of the word . 
They were received with an excess of hospitality and the most marked attention was offered to the Master of Ravenswood , in particular , by their noble entertainers . 
And my lady , too , bringing forward her beetle browed misses to skirl and play upon the virginals , as if she said , 'Pick and choose . 
They are no more comparable to Lucy than an owl is to a cygnet , and so they may carry their black brows to a farther market . 
Some feelings of the same kind oppressed the mind of the Master himself . 
He gradually became silent , adn dropped a little behind the lady , at whose bridle rein he had hitherto waited with such devotion . 
The extensive front of the old castle , on which he remembered having often looked back , was then as black as mourning weed . 
There were also two or three Dutch drolleries , as the pictures of Ostade and Teniers were then termed , with one good painting of the Italian school . 
It was obvious at the first glance that , despite mace and gold frogs , the Lord Keeper was somewhat henpecked . 
Would you choose any refreshment , Master ? said Sir William Ashton , not unwilling to break the awkward silence . 
He received no answer , the Master being so busily engaged in marking the various changes which had taken place in the apartment , that he hardly heard the Lord Keeper address him . 
He compelled himself , therefore , to enter into conversation with Sir William Ashton , with as much appearance of indifference as he could well command . 
You will not be surprised , Sir William , that I am interested in the changes you have made for the better in this apartment . 
I have a young birkie , said the Lord Keeper , willing to change the tone of the conversation , of much the same turn . 
He is never happy save when he is in the field . 
I wonder he is not here . 
Here , Lockhard send William Shaw for Mr. Henry . 
I suppose he is , as usual , tied to Lucy's apron string that foolish girl , Master , draws the whole family after her at her pleasure . 
Even this allusion to his daughter , though artfully thrown out , did not recall Ravenswood from his own topic . 
Henry , a spoilt boy of fifteen , burst into the room , and ran up to his father . 
I think you were very unreasonable to ask her , said the Keeper . 
Then you are as cross as she is , answered the boy but when mamma comes home , she'll claw up both your mittens . 
Mony better and few waur , Fal de ral , etc . 
Go speak to him , Henry it is the Master of Ravenswood . 
Come to me , young gentleman , said the Master , and I will tell you all I know about the hunt . 
Go to the gentleman , Henry , said his father you are not used to be so shy . 
But neither invitation nor exhortation had any effect on the boy . 
Why do you not speak to the Master , you little fool ? said the Lord Keeper . 
I am afraid , said Henry , in a very low tone of voice . 
Afraid , you goose ! said his father , giving him a slight shake by the collar . 
What makes you afraid ? What makes him to like the picture of Sir Malise Ravenswood then ? said the boy , whispering . 
What picture , you natural ? said his father . 
I used to think you only a scapegrace , but I believe you will turn out a born idiot . 
Master , here comes Lockhard to say supper is served . 
And , at the same instant , Lucy entered at another door , having changed her dress since her return . 
Such is the power of beauty over a youthful and enthusiastic fancy . 
I do too ill in this , And must not think but that a parent's plaint Will move the heavens to pour forth misery Upon the head of disobediency . 
The Hog hath lost his Pearl . 
THE feast of Ravenswood Castle was as remarkable for its profusion as that of Wolf's Crag had been for its ill veiled penury . 
The Lord Keeper might feel internal pride at the contrast , but he had too much tact to suffer it to appear . 
On the contrary , he seemed to remember with pleasure what he called Mr. Balderstone's bachelor's meal , and to be rather disgusted than pleaseed with the display upon his own groaning board . 
This was a little overstretched . 
The Master only answered , That different ranks I mean , said he , correcting himself , different degrees of wealth require a different style of housekeeping . 
This dry remark put a stop to further conversation on the subject , nor is it necessary to record that which was substituted in its place . 
The next morning was the appointed time . 
It rose upon active sportsmen and successful sport . 
The banquet came in course and a pressing invitation to tarry yet another day was given and accepted . 
To visit Alice , therefore , a day was devoted , and Lucy was the Master's guide upon the way . 
The conversation betwixt the Master and his sister , meanwhile , took an interesting , and almost a confidential , turn . 
They now approached the hut of Old Alice , which had of late been rendered more comfortable , and presented an appearance less picturesque , perhaps , but far neater than before . 
The old woman was on her accustomed seat beneath the weeping birch , basking , with the listless enjoyment of age and infirmity , in the beams of the autumn sun . 
At the arrival of her visitors she turned her head towards them . 
I hear your step , Miss Ashton , she said , but the gentleman who attends you is not my lord , your father . 
Necessity is a stern but an excellent schoolmistress , and she that has lost her sight must collect her information from other sources . 
This is indeed , said Ravenswood , an acuteness of organ which I could not have credited had I not witnessed it . 
I am indeed the Master of Ravenswood , Alice , the son of your old master . 
You ! said the old woman , with almost a scream of surprise you the Master of Ravenswood here in this place , and thus accompanied ! I cannot believe it . 
let me pass my old hand over your face , that my touch may bear witness to my ears . 
The Master sate down beside her on the earthen bank , and permitted her to touch his features with her trembling hand . 
It is indeed ! she said it is the features as well as the voice of Ravenswood the high lines of pride , as well as the bold and haughty tone . 
The Master of Ravenswood , said Lucy , who liked not the tone of this expostulation , and was desirous to abridge it , is upon a visit to my father . 
Indeed ! said the old blind woman , in an accent of surprise . 
I knew , continued Lucy , I should do him a pleasure by conducting him to your cottage . 
Where , to say the truth , Alice , said Ravenswood , I expected a more cordial reception . 
Hearken , young man , she said your fathers were implacable , but they were honourable , foes they sought not to ruin their enemies under the mast of hospitality . 
If you hold this mysterious language , instead of welcoming your friends , they will think of you as other people do . 
And how do other people think ? said Ravenswood , for he also began to believe the old woman spoke with incoherence . 
Come , Henry , we will leave her for the present she wishes to speak with the Master alone . 
We will walk homeward , and rest us , she added , looking at Ravenswood , by the Mermaiden's Well . 
Alice made no answer till she was aware that the sister and brother were out of hearing . 
Ay , trust is ever offensive but , surely , not unfounded . 
I tell you , dame , most groundless , replied Ravenswood . 
Then the world has changed its wont , and the Ravenswoods their hereditary temper , and the eyes of Old Alice's understanding are yet more blind than those of her countenance . 
In neither , said Ravenswood , I give you mine honour I mean , I assure you . 
Alice could not see his blushing cheek , but she noticed his hestitation , and that he retracted the pledge which he seemed at first disposed to attach to his denial . 
You drive me to madness , Alice , said Ravenswood you are more silly and more superstitious than old Balderstone . 
I would shield , were it in the power of this withered hand , the Ashtons from you , and you from them , and both from their own passions . 
You can have nothing ought to have nothing , in common with them . 
Begone from among them and if God has destined vengeance on the oppressor's house , do not you be the instrument . 
I will think on what you have said , Alice , said Ravenswood , more composedly . 
I believe you mean truly and faithfully by me , but you urge the freedom of an ancient domestic somewhat too far . 
But farewell and if Heaven afford me better means , I will not fail to contribute to your comfort . 
If I know myself , I am free from all such views respecting Miss Ashton as you impute to me . 
Alice bent her sightless eyes on the ground , and was for some time plunged in deep meditation . 
Lucy Ashton loves you , Lord of Ravenswood ! It is impossible , said the Master . 
A thousand circumstances have proved it to me , replied the blind woman . 
Her thoughts have turned on no one else since you saved her from death , and that my experienced judgment has won from her own conversation . 
Having told you this if you are indeed a gentleman and your father's son you will make it a movtive for flying from her presence . 
I tell you this secret unwillingly , but it could not have been hid long from your own observation , and it is better you learn it from mine . 
Depart , Master of Ravenswood you have my secret . 
So saying , the old blind woman arose , asumed her staff , and , tottering to her hut , entered it and closed the door , leaving Ravenswood to his own reflections . 
Lovelier in her own retired abode . 
than Naiad by the side Of Grecian brook or Lady of the Mere Lone sitting by the shores of old romance . 
THE meditations of Ravenswood were of a very mixed complexion . 
He saw himself at once in the very dilemma which he had for some time felt apprehensive he might be placed in . 
Still , he felt that Alice poke truth , and that his honour now required he should take an instant leave of Ravenswood Castle , or become a suitor of Lucy Ashton . 
Betwixt two scales equally loaded , a feather's weight will turn the scale . 
I ought , too , in courtesy , to apprise her of my intention to quit the castle . 
And having thus satisfied himself that he was taking not only a wise , but an absolutely necessary , step , he took the path to the fatal fountain . 
Henry no sooner saw him on the way to join his sister than he was off like lightning in another direction , to enjoy the society of the forester in their congenial pursuits . 
As he gazed on her , he felt his fixed resolution melting like wax in the sun , and hastened , therefore , from his concealment in the neighbouring thicket . 
She saluted him , but did not arise from the stone on which she was seated . 
Ravenswood did not feel the power of informing Lucy that her brother meditated a distant excursion , and would not return in haste . 
He sate himself down on the grass , at some little distance from Miss Ashton , and both were silent for a short space . 
I think , too , I have heard it is a spot connected with the legendary lore which I love so well . 
The blood , which the first part of this speech called into Lucy's cheeks , was speedily expelled by its conclusion . 
But I am certain my father is sincerely grateful for the high service you rendered us . 
Lt me hope that , having won your friendship hardly , we shall not lose it lightly . 
Lose it , Miss Ashton ! said the Master of Ravenswood . 
No wherever my fortune calls me whatever she inflicts upon me it is your friend your sincere friend , who acts or suffers . 
But there is a fate on me , and I must go , or I shall add the ruin of others to my own . 
You shall not part from us . 
My father is powerful , he has friends taht are more so than himself do not go till you see what his gratitude will do for you . 
Believe me , he is already labouring in your behalf with the council . 
My preparations are already made a sword and a cloak , and a bold heart and a determined hand . 
Lucy covered her face her hands , and the tears , in spite of her , forced their way between her fingers . 
Lucy wept on , but her tears were less bitter . 
And now , he said , after a moment's consideration , it is fit I should speak to Sir William Ashton he must know of our engagement . 
Ravenswood must not seem to dwell under his roof to solicit clandestinely the affections of his daughter . 
Your mother , my Lucy ! replied Ravenswood . 
Be it so , replied Ravenswood . 
London is distant , but a letter will reach it and receive an answer within a fortnight I will not press on the Lord Keeper for an instant reply to my proposal . 
It was a deadly sin , said Lucy , turning pale , to make a vow so fatal . 
I acknowledge it , said Ravenswood , and it had been a worse crime to keep it . 
If such are your sentiments , said Lucy , you have played a cruel game with me . 
Ravenswood pleaded , apologised , and even kneeled , to appease her displeasure and lucy , as placable as she was single hearted , readily forgave the offence which his doubts had implied . 
The dispute thus agitated , however , ended by the lovers going through an emblematic ceremony of their troth plight , of which the vulgar still preserve some traces . 
They broke betwixt them the thin broad piece of gold which Alice had refused to receive from Ravenswood . 
With like protestations , Ravenswood placed his portion of the coin opposite to his heart . 
The bird fluttered a few yards and dropped at the feet of Lucy , whose dress was stained with some spots of its blood . 
Miss Ashton was much alarmed , and Ravenswood , surprised and angry , looked everywhere for the marksman , who had given them a proof of his skill as little expected as desired . 
He was not long of discovering himself , being no other than Henry Ashton , who came running up with a crossbow in his hand . 
Well , well , Mr. Henry , said Ravenswood but let us see how you will answer to me for killing the raven . 
Admirably shot , indeed , said Ravenswood and you will be a fine marksman if you practise hard . 
I have known her do so twenty times , if you will believe me . 
There was , we repeat it , no real ground whatever for such an apprehension , nor could he be said seriously to entertain such for a moment . 
Indeed , it was impossible to look at the clear blue eye of Lucy Ashton , and entertain the slightest permanent doubt concerning the sincerity of her disposition . 
They reached the castle , where Sir William Ashton , who had been alarmed by the length of their stay , met them in the hall . 
But , in the company of the Master of Ravenswood , he knew his daughter had nothing to dread . 
But it was not his present policy to take any notice of what he observed . 
This was his provision for the worst view of the case . 
But , according to its more probable issue , any passing favours she might entertain for the Master of Ravenswood might require encouragement rather than repression . 
The success of this convenient friend had been such , that he had obtained from Sir William , not indeed a directly favourable answer , but certainly a most patient hearing . 
This he had reported to his principal , who had replied by the ancient French adage , Chateau qui parle , et femme qui ecoute , l'un et l'autre va se rendre . 
The packet , therefore , contained a letter from his friend and ally , and another from himself , to the Lord Keeper , frankly offering an unceremonious visit . 
should plainly point out to him as proper . 
Two circumstances particularly delighted him the presence of Ravenswood , and the absence of his own lady . 
Marall Sir , the man of honour's come , Newly alighted Overreach In without reply , And do as I command . 
Is the loud music I gave order for Ready to receive him ? New Way to pay Old Debts . 
He loved the ostentatious display of his wealth , less as a man to whom habit has made it necessary , than as one to whom it is still delightful from its novelty . 
And yet , said Lucy , it was by attention to these minutiae that my father acquired the property Which my ancestors sold for lack of it , replied Ravenswood . 
Be it so a porter still bears but a burden , though the burden be of gold . 
The lovers soon discovered that they differed upon other and no less important topics . 
His family , equally of course , were trained under the same institution . 
Lucy felt a secret awe , amid all her affection for Ravenswood . 
Thus the very points in which they differed seemed , in some measure , to ensure the continuance of their mutual affection . 
This is poetry , Lucy , said Ravenswood and in poetry there is always fallacy , and sometimes fiction . 
The lovers had ample time for such explanations . 
Henry was now more seldom their companion , being either a most unwilling attendant upon the lessons of his tutor , or a forward volunteer under the instructions of the foresters or grooms . 
But Bucklaw had so far derived wisdom from adversity , that he would listen to no proposal which Craigengelt could invent , which had the slightest tendency to risk his newly acquired independence . 
Craigengelt , therefore , found himself disappointed in the first hopes he had entertained of making a good hand of the Laird of Bucklaw . 
Still , however , he reaped many advantages from his friend's good fortune . 
, was always ready to save him from the scandal of getting drunk by himself . 
Upon these terms , Craigengelt was the frequent , almost the constant , inmate of the house of Girnington . 
But , as circumstances stood , this evil communication was particularly liable to corrupt what good principles nature had implanted in the patron . 
But respecting this subject Bucklaw imposed on him , at length , a peremptory command of silence . 
But he gave me my life once and , in looking the matter over at present , I put myself but on equal terms with him . 
Should he cross me again , I shall consider the old accompt as balanced , and his Mastership will do well to look to himself . 
That he should , re echoed Craigengelt for when you are in practice , Bucklaw , I would bet a magnum you are through him before the third pass . 
Then you know nothing of the matter , said Bucklaw , and you never saw him fence . 
Just as you like , answered the parasite , for we made short work of it . 
Then I like it short , said Bucklaw . 
That was what tough old Sir Even Dhu used to say to me when I was out with the metall'd lads in . 
'Craigengelt , he used to say , 'you are as pretty a fellow as ever held steel in his grip , but you have one fault . 
So , when you mean to vapour with your hanger and your dram cup in support of treasonable toasts , you must find your liquor and company elsewhere . 
Well , then , said Craigengelt , name the toast yourself , and be it what it like , I'll pledge you , were it a mile to the bottom . 
I thought , said he , after a moment's pause , that was a settled matter they are continually together , and nothing else is spoken of betwixt Lammer Law and Traprain . 
They may say what they please , replied his patron , but I know better and I'll give you Miss Lucy Ashton's health again , my boy . 
And I woul drink it on my knee , said Craigengelt , if I thought the girl had the spirit to jilt that d d son of a Spaniard . 
I am to request you will not use the word 'jilt' and Miss Ashton's name together , said Bucklaw , gravely . 
But yet I know for certain they are hours together alone , and in the woods and the fields . 
That's her foolish father's dotage that will be soon put out of the lass's head , if it ever gets into it , answered Bucklaw . 
What , man ! I am not the boy to put myself into leading strings . 
If you could have kept your ground till that was over , you might have made a good year's pension , said Bucklaw . 
But I never could , answered the dejected parasite . 
Why , then , you must ride two hundred miles for me , said the patron . 
A thousand , and call them a flea's leap , answered the dependant I'll cause saddle my horse directly . 
Better stay till you know where you are to go , and what you are to do , quoth Bucklaw . 
But don't be downcast , John I believe , after all , you like me very well in your way , and it is my misfortune to have no better counsellor at present . 
To return to this Lady Blenkensop , you must know , she is a close confederate of Duchess Sarah . 
What ! of Sall Jennings ? exclaimed Craigengelt then she must be a good one . 
Hold your tongue , and keep your Tory rants to yourself , if it be possible , said Bucklaw . 
You may suppose I was a little astonished when I found that a treaty , in which I was so considerably interested , had advanced a good way before I was even consulted . 
Why , I thought you had never seen the wench but once , and then she had her riding mask on I am sure you told me so . 
Ay , but I liked her very well then . 
But it will break his pride , though , and that's what I'm driving at . 
Distance me ! said Craigengelt , but I know the reason now of his unmannerly behaviour at his old tumble down tower yonder . 
Ashamed of your company ? no , no ! Gad , he was afraid you would cut in and carry off the girl . 
Eh ! Craigengelt ? said Bucklaw , do you really think so ? but no , no ! he is a devilish deal prettier man than I am . 
Who he ? exclaimed the parasite . 
But as to Ravenswood he has kept no terms with me , I'll keep none with him if I CAN win this girl from him , I WILL win her . 
Win her ! 'sblood , you SHALL win her , point , quint , and quatorze , my king of trumps you shall pique , repique , and capot him . 
Prithee , stop thy gambling cant for one instant , said Bucklaw . 
Now they want me to send up a confidential person with some writings . 
By this good win , I'll ride to the end of the world the very gates of Jericho , and the judgment seat of Prester John , for thee ! ejaculated the Captain . 
Why , I believe you would do something for me , and a great deal for yourself . 
Now , any one could carry the writings but you will have a little more to do . 
Hark ye , Craigengelt as you are going into the society of women of rank , said Bucklaw , I'll thank you to forget your strange blackguard oaths and 'damme's . 
I'll write to them , though , that you are a blunt , untaught fellow . 
Ay , ay , replied Craigengelt a plain , blunt , honest , downright soldier . 
Nay , Bucklaw on my soul , man , you use me ill . 
However , added Craigengelt , pocketing the money , if you will have me so far indebted to you , I must be conforming . 
Well , horse and away ! said the patron , so soon as you have got your riding livery in trim . 
You may ride the black crop ear and , hark ye , I'll make you a present of him to boot . 
I drink to the good luck of my mission , answered the ambassador , in a half pint bumper . 
Take care not to affront her with any of your Jacobite jargon . 
And I say , Craigie , you may fetch up half a dozen whilst you are about it . 
Egad , we'll make a night on't ! CHAPTER XXII . 
And soon they spied the merry men green , And eke the coach and four . 
It is true that Craigengelt was now handsomely dressed , and that was a point of no small consequence . 
But , independent of outward show , his blackguard impudence of address was construed into honourable bluntness . 
becoming his supposed military profession his hectoring passed for courage , and his sauciness for wit . 
When he found himself established in favour , his next point was how best to use it for the furtherance of his patron's views . 
There was little to prevent Bucklaw himself from sitting for the county he must carry the heat must walk the course . 
Unhappy Lord Keeper ! little was he aware what a storm was travelling towards him in all the speed with which an old fashioned coach and six could possibly achieve its journey . 
He , like Don Gayferos , forgot his lady fair and true , and was only anxious about the expected visit of the Marquis of A . 
This pleasant walk commanded a beautiful and extensive view . 
These were not long of presenting themselves . 
Onward they came at a long swinging trot , arguing unwearied speed in their long breathed calling . 
, and perhaps may be still remembered by some old persons in Scotland , as part of the retinue of the ancient nobility when travelling in full ceremony . 
The privilege of nobility , in those days , had something in it impressive on the imagination . 
It was not so in the days of which I write and the Marquis's approach , so long expected in vain , now took place in the full pomp of ancient aristocracy . 
There was no neighbour who would have approached so unceremoniously , at a time when ceremony was held in such respect . 
It must be Lady Ashton , said his conscience , and followed up the hint with an anxious anticipation of the purpose of her sudden and unannounced return . 
He felt that he was caught in the manner . 
But so active were his doubts and fears as altogether to derange his purposed ceremonial for the reception of the Marquis . 
These feelings of apprehension were not confined to Sir William Ashton . 
It is my mother it is my mother ! said Lucy , turning as pale as ashes , and clasping her hands together as she looked at Ravenswood . 
For the Keeper , sense , spirit , and expression seem to have left his face and manner since he had the first glimpse of Lady Ashton's carriage . 
I must watch how this is to end and , if they give me reason to think myself an unwelcome guest , my visit is soon abridged . 
Sir William's only chance now remaining was the possibility of an overturn , and that his lady or visitor might break their necks . 
I am not aware that he formed any distinct wish on the subject , but I have no reason to think that his grief in either case would have been altogether inconsolable . 
He restrained his pace , therefore , and suffered the green coach to enter the avenue , with all its retinue , which pass it occupied with the speed of a whirlwind . 
The manners of a man trained like Sir William Ashton are too much at his command to remain long disconcerted with the most adverse concurrence of circumstances . 
Lucy blushed the Marquis looked surprised at the extremely juvenile appearance of his hostess , and the Lord Keeper with difficulty rallied himself so far as to explain . 
I am shocked my people should have taken precedence of our hostess at her own gate but your lordship is aware that I supposed Lady Ashton was still in the south . 
Permit me to beseech you will waive ceremony , and hasten to welcome her . 
This was precisely what the Lord Keeper longed to do and he instantly profited by his lordship's obliging permission . 
To see Lady Ashton , and encounter the first burst of her displeasure in private , might prepare her , in some degree , to receive her unwelcome guests with due decorum . 
As her carriage , therefore , stopped , the arm of the attentive husband was ready to assist Lady Ashton in dismounting . 
Lucy had taken the first opportunity of escaping . 
After waiting a moment to be presented by Sir William Ashton , the Marquis resolved to introduce himself . 
Lady Ashton could not choose but courtesy but there was in her obeisance an air of haughtiness approaching to contemptuous repulse . 
Ravenswood could not choose but bow but his manner returned the scorn with which he had been greeted . 
Allow me , she said , to present to your lordship MY friend . 
The lady turned to her husband . 
Let me introduce you to the Master of Ravenswood , said he to Captain Craigengelt , following up the same amicable system . 
So soon as the spouses had both entered , her ladyship gave way to that fierce audacity of temper which she had with difficulty suppressed , out of respect to appearances . 
But as mine happens to be inextricably involved with it , you will excuse me if I choose to give my own attention so far as that is concerned . 
What would you have , Lady Ashton ? said the husband . 
Why , what , in the name of common sense and common civility , would you have me do , madam ? answered her husband . 
I expect young Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw . 
Good heavens , madam ! ejaculated her husband . 
Since you saw him there , you might be well assured , answered this meek helpmate , that he was proper society . 
But take your resolution for , if Ravenswood does not quit the house , I will . 
At length it ended , as is usual with timid minds placed in such circumstances , in his adopting a mezzo termine a middle measure . 
I tell you frankly , madam , I neither can nor will be guilty of the incivility you propose to the Master of Ravenswood he has not deserved it at my hand . 
You will not ? asked the lady . 
Then the task of supporting the honour of the family will fall on me , as it has often done before , said the lady . 
She sat down , and hastily wrote a few lines . 
The Lord Keeper made another effort to prevent her taking a step so decisive , just as she opened the door to call her female attendant from the ante room . 
Ay , but he is as proud and vindictive as an hundred Douglasses , and an hundred devils to boot . 
Think of it for a night only . 
Not for another moment , answered the lady . 
Here , Mrs. Patullo , give this billet to young Ravenswood . 
To the Master , madam ! said Mrs. Patullo . 
Ay , to the Master , if you call him so . 
I wash my hands of it entirely , said the Keeper and I shall go down into the garden , and see that Jardine gathers the winter fruit for the dessert . 
When he entered the hall , he found the Marquis of A giving orders to some of his attendants . 
He seemed in high displeasure , and interrupted an apology which Sir William had commenced for having left his lordship alone . 
has been favoured by your lady and , of course , that you are prepared to receive my adieus . 
My kinsman is already gone , having thought it unnecessary to offer any on his part , since all former civilities had been cancelled by this singular insult . 
I protest , my lord , said Sir William , holding the billet in his hand , I am not privy to the contents of this letter . 
Lady Ashton accordingly entered the apartment at this moment . 
Her dispute with Sir William , and a subsequent interview with her daughter , had not prevented her from attending to the duties of her toilette . 
She appeared in full dress and , from the character of her countenance and manner , well became the splendour with which ladies of quality then appeared on such occasions . 
The Marquis of A bowed haughtily , and she returned the salute with equal pride and distance of demeanour . 
I perceive , my lord , you are about to enter upon an unpleasant subject . 
I am sorry any such should have occurred at this time , to interrupt in the slightest degree the respectful reception due to your lordship but so it is . 
Both gentlemen answered at once . 
My kinsman is incapable said the Lord Marquis . 
I am confident that my daughter Lucy is still more incapable said the Lord Keeper . 
Sir William Ashton , your daughter has been simple enough to give more encouragement than she ought to have done to so very improper a suitor . 
You will recollect , my lord , of what blood Miss Lucy Ashton is come by the mother's side , said the lady . 
Let us talk over this matter more coolly . 
It is what I anxiously desire , my lord , said Sir William Ashton , eagerly . 
Lady Ashton , we will not permit my Lord of A to leave us in displeasure . 
We must compel him to tarry dinner at the castle . 
Here they were joined by Bucklaw , Craigengelt , and other neighbours , whom the Lord Keeper had previously invited to meet the Marquis of A . 
An apology , founded upon a slight indisposition , was alleged as an excuse for the absence of Miss Ashton , whose seat appeared unoccupied . 
The entertainment was splendid to profusion , and was protracted till a late hour . 
Such was our fallen father's fate , Yet better than mine own He shared his exile with his mate , I'm banish'd forth alone . 
WALLER I WILL not attempt to describe the mixture of indignation and regret with which Ravenswood left the seat which had belonged to his ancestors . 
The Marquis , who had his share in the affront , was , nevertheless , still willing to make some efforts at conciliation . 
Here the Marquis proposed to join the Master of Ravenswood , either that night or the next morning . 
He himself departed without a moment's delay , farther than was necessary to make this arrangement . 
Old saws speak truth , he said to himself , and the Mermaiden's Well has indeed witnessed the last act of rashness of the heir of Ravenswood . 
, combined to impress him with a feeling of wonder approaching to fear . 
The rider , after a moment's consideration , resolved to investigate the matter further . 
In this uncertainty he rode up to the little wicket of Alice's garden . 
Her seat beneath the birch tree was vacant , though the day was pleasant and the sun was high . 
He approached the hut , and heard from within the sobs and wailing of a female . 
No answer was returned when he knocked , so that , after a moment's pause , he lifted the latch and entered . 
It was indeed a house of solitude and sorrow . 
Notwithstanding his natural courage , the Master was considerably affected by a concurrence of circumstances so extraordinary . 
She died expressing her eager desire to see me . 
He laid a cloth , as he spoke , over the lifeless face , upon whose features he felt unwilling any longer to dwell . 
Thus seated , he banished , as much as he could , the superstitious feelings which the late incident naturally inspired . 
But the burial duties rendered to the deceased are , to the Scottish peasant of either sex , a labour of love . 
What the funeral feast , or dirgie , as it is called , was to the men , the gloomy preparations of the dead body for the coffin were to the women . 
The old women paid the Master their salutations with a ghastly smile , which reminded him of the meeting betwixt Macbeth and the witches on the blasted heath of Forres . 
I was at the winding of the corpse and when the bluid was washed off , he was a bonny bouk of man's body . 
It may be easily believed that this ill timed anecdote hastened the Master's purpose of quitting a company so evil omened and so odious . 
The paralytic wretch , almost exhausted by the journey , was left guard upon the corpse , lest witches or fiends might play their sport with it . 
Ay , cummer ! but the very deil has turned as hard hearted now as the Lord Keeper and the grit folk , that hae breasts like whinstane . 
Did ye ever see the foul thief ? asked her neighbour . 
Na ! replied the other spokeswoman but I trow I hae dreamed of him mony a time , and I think the day will come they will burn me for't . 
Here her leathern chops uttered a sort of cackling , ghastly laugh , resembling , to a certain degree , the cry of the screech owl . 
He's a frank man , and a free handed man , the Master , said Annie Winnie , and a comely personage broad in the shouthers , and narrow around the lunyies . 
He wad mak a bonny corpse I wad like to hae the streiking and winding o' him . 
I ken ye are wiser than ither folk , Aislie Gourlay . 
But wha tell'd ye this ? Fashna your thumb about that , Annie Winnie , answered the sibyl , I hae it frae a hand sure eneugh . 
But ye said ye never saw the foul thief , reiterated her inquisitive companion . 
I hae it frae as sure a hand , said Ailsie , and frae them that spaed his fortune before the sark gaed ower his head . 
Hark ! I hear his horse's feet riding aff , said the other they dinna sound as if good luck was wi' them . 
Ravenswood was now out of hearing . 
But the vision of that morning , whether real or imaginary , had impressed his mind with a superstitious feeling which he in vain endeavoured to shake off . 
The nature of the business which awaited him at the little inn , called Tod's Hole , where he soon after arrived , was not of a kind to restore his spirits . 
It was situated in the nook formed by the eddying sweep of a stream , which issued from the adjoining hills . 
One or two shattered yew trees still grew within the precincts of that which had once been holy ground . 
Warriors and barons had been buried there of old , but their names were forgotten , and their monuments demolished . 
The only sepulchral memorials which remained were the upright headstonres which mark the graves of persons of inferior rank . 
On inquiry , however , Ravenswood found that the man of the last mattock was absent at a bridal , being fiddler as well as grave digger to the vicinity . 
Hamlet Has this fellow no feeling of his business ? he sings at grave making . 
Horatio Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness . 
Hamlet 'Tis e'en so the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense . 
Hamlet , Act V. Scene . 
THE sleep of Ravenswood was broken by ghastly and agitating visions , and his waking intervals disturbed by melancholy reflections on the past and painful anticipations of the future . 
He was perhaps the only traveller who ever slept in that miserable kennel without complaining of his lodgings , or feeling inconvenience from their deficiencies . 
It is when the mind is free the body's delicate . 
Morning , however , found the Master an early riser , in hopes that the fresh air of the dawn might afford the refreshment which night had refused him . 
He took his way towards the solitary burial ground , which lay about half a mile from the inn . 
Accordingly , on entering the little churchyard , he saw the old man labouring in a half made grave . 
My destiny , thought Ravenswood , seems to lead me to scenes of fate and of death but these are childish thoughts , and they shall not master me . 
I will not again suffer my imagination to beguile my senses . 
Ye will be a wedding customer , sir , I'se warrant ? What makes you think so , friend ? replied the Master . 
You are mistaken , however , this morning , replied Ravenswood . 
Weel weel the pick and shovel are as ready to your order as bow and fiddle . 
I wish you , said Ravenswood , to look after the descent interment of an old woman , Alice Gray , who lived at the Graigfoot in Ravenswood Park . 
Alice Gray ! blind Alice ! said the sexton and is she gane at last ? that's another jow of the bell to bid me be ready . 
I mind when Habbie Gray brought her down to this land a likely lass she was then , and looked ower her southland nose at us a' . 
I trow her pride got a downcome . 
I ken whar a'body lies , that lies here . 
There is the money , my friend , said Ravenswood , and something over . 
Be sure you know the grave . 
Ye'll be ane o' her English relations , I'se warrant , said the hoary man of skulls I hae heard she married far below her station . 
The presence of the fiddle , I dare say , replied Ravenswood , would atone for the absence of all the others . 
The sexton again looked sharply up at him , as he answered . 
They are no favourites , then , of yours , these Ravenswoods ? said the Master , no much pleased with the passing benediction which was thus bestowed on his family and name . 
Indeed ! said Ravenswood I never heard that this unhappy family deserved ill will at the hands of their country . 
I grant their poverty , if that renders them contemptible . 
But as for the Ravenswoods , I hae seen three generations of them , and deil ane to mend other . 
I thought they had enjoyed a fair character in the country , said their descendant . 
I defy him to hae played 'Boot and saddle , or 'Horse and away , or 'Gallants , come trot , with me he hadna the tones . 
And very reasonable , said Ravenswood you were his servant and vassal . 
But bide ye , ye shall hear what cam o't , and how far I am bund to be bedesman to the Ravenswoods . 
Well , sir , cut all this short , said Ravenswood . 
Short ! I had like to hae been cut short mysell , in the flower of my youth , as Scripture says and that's the very thing that I compleen o' . 
You were rather obliged to the old lord , I think , said Ravenswood . 
You lost , then , your place as trumpeter ? said Ravenswood . 
If Lord Ravenswood protected his people , my friend , while he had the means of doing so , I think they might spare his memory , replied the Master . 
However , said the sexton , this young man Edgar is like to avenge my wrangs on the haill of his kindred . 
Sorra a bit , if I were him ! Let her alane for hauding a'thing in het water that draws near her . 
After mutual greetings , he made some apology to the Master for not coming forward on the preceding evening . 
It was his wish , he said , to have done so , but he had come to the knowledge of some matters which induced him to delay his purpose . 
We want no music , said the Master , abruptly . 
Your honour disna ken what ye're refusing , then , said the fiddler , with the impertinent freedom of his profession . 
I can play , 'Wilt thou do't again , and 'The Auld Man's Mear's Dead , sax times better than ever Patie Birnie . 
I'll get my fiddle in the turning of a coffin screw . 
Take yourself away , sir , said the Marquis . 
Take yourself away , friend you interrupt our conversation . 
Aweel , gentlemen , said he , I am wishing your honours gude day . 
I'll be a' the better of the dollar , and ye'll be the waur of wanting music , I'se tell ye . 
True love , an thou be true , Thou has ane kittle part to play For fortune , fashion , fancy , and thou , Maun strive for many a day . 
I've kend by mony a friend's tale , Far better by this heart of mine , What time and change of fancy avail A true love knot to untwine . 
My lord , I am much indebted for the interest you have taken in my affairs , said Ravenswood . 
I did not intend to have troubled you in any matter concerning Miss Ashton . 
I am obliged to your lordship for your unsolicited intercession , said Ravenswood especially as I am sure your lordship would never carry it beyond the bounds which it became me to use . 
I said I regarded you as a son or a nephew , or so rather than as a more distant relation and that I made your affair entirely my own . 
And what was the issue of your lordship's explanation ? said Ravenswood , in some doubt whether he should resent or express gratitude for his interference . 
I am glad of that , kinsman , said the Marquis , for I am ashamed to tell you half what she said . 
I cannot guess what she means . 
A more honourable connexion she could not form , that's certain . 
But I should only vex you to say more about it here we are at the change house . 
Of that , my lord , I shall judge , answered Ravenswood , and I hope with delicacy as sensitive as any of my friends . 
But I have no engagement with Sir William and Lady Ashton . 
It is with Miss Ashton alone that I have entered upon the subject , and my conduct in the matter shall be entirely ruled by hers . 
Spoke like a gallant young nobleman , said the Marquis for my part , I have that regard for you , that I should be sorry the thing went on . 
There was something in all this that , as it were , overshot the mark . 
The Marquis soon had more agreeable , as well as more interesting , subjects on which to converse . 
A foot post , who had followed him from Edinburgh to Ravenswood Castle , and had traced his steps to the Tod's Hole , brought him a packet laden with good news . 
The political calculations of the Marquis had proved just , both in London and at Edinburgh , and he saw almost within his grasp the pre eminence for which he had panted . 
The turn of conversation corresponded with and added to the social feelings of the company . 
Ravenswood could but repeat the gratitude which he really felt , even when he considered the topic as too long dwelt upon . 
The wine was excellent , notwithstanding its having been brought in a runlet from Edinburgh and the habits of the Marquis , when engaged with such good cheer , were somewhat sedentary . 
And so it fell out that they delayed their journey two hours later than was their original purpose . 
But what of that , my good young friend ? said the Marquis . 
Sir William took the castle by storm , said Ravenswood , and , like many a victor , had little reason to congratulate himself on his conquest . 
Well well ! said Lord A , whose dignity was something relaxed by the wine he had drunk , I see I must bribe you to harbour me . 
Come , pledge me in a bumper health to the last young lady that slept at Wolf's Crag , and liked her quarters . 
My bones are not so tender as hers , and I am resolved to occupy her apartment to night , that I may judge how hard the couch is that love can soften . 
I do assure you , we are totally and literally unprovided . 
But his declaration only brought from his noble patron an assurance of his own total indifference as to every species of accommodation , and his determination to see the Tower of Wolf's Crag . 
His ancestor , he said , had been feasted there , when he went forward with the then Lord Ravenswood to the fatal battle of Flodden , in which they both fell . 
Ravenswood was too well accustomed to his seneschal's mode of acting and speaking to hope much from this confident assurance . 
You do yourself injustice , Master , said the Marquis , or you wish to surprise me agreeably . 
I cannot conceive that any illumination of an ordinary nature could afford such a blaze of light . 
But I can , interrupted the Marquis , whispering him , I can comprehend it thoroughly for God's sake , ask him no more questions at present . 
There it is , now , said Caleb , extricating himself from his master , and adjusting his dress , your honour will believe his lordship's honourable testimony . 
I do entreat , said the Marquis to Ravenswood , you will ask him no more questions . 
Only one , my lord . 
What has become of poor Mysie ? Mysie ! said Caleb , I had nae time to look about ony Mysie she's in the Tower , I'se warrant , biding her awful doom . 
Weel , then , as I live by bread , said Caleb , Mysie is weel and safe . 
I saw her out of the castle before I left it mysell . 
Was I ganging to forget an auld fellow servant ? What made you tell me the contrary this moment ? said his master . 
Gude guide us , Mr. Balderstone ! said Mrs. Girder . 
Wha wad hae thought it of an auld and kenn'd friend ! said the mother . 
Ony man that has said to ye I am no gratefu' for the situation of Queen's cooper , let me hae a whample at him wi' mine eatche , that's a' . 
Naething I care to be fashed wi' less than thanks I never could bide them . 
To be sure , he canna but hae heard , said the good woman . 
, every man of note in the village was ascending to the top gallant of some ideal preferment by the ladder of ropes which Caleb had presented to their imagination . 
In fact , Caleb had no sooner announced the conflagration of the tower than the whole hamlet were upon foot to hasten to extinguish the flames . 
And although that zealous adherent diverted their zeal by intimating the formidable contents of the subterranean apartments , yet the check only turned their assiduity into another direction . 
Never had there been such a tapping of barrels , and such uncorking of greybeards , in the village of Wolf's Hope . 
Some idle boys from the hamlet had taken the same direction out of curiosity , having first witnessed the arrival of the coach and six and its attendants . 
It've very like it wad , said Balderstone , composedly . 
Then the fire cannot have reached the vaults ? It's like no , answered Caleb , with the same impenetrable gravity . 
Hark ye , Caleb , said his master , this grows a little too much for my patience . 
I must go and examine how matters stand at Wolf's Crag myself . 
Your honour is ganging to gang nae sic gate , said Caleb , firmly . 
And why not ? said Ravenswood , sharply who or what shall prevent me ? Even I mysell , said Caleb , with the same determination . 
You , Balderstone ! replied the Master you are forgetting yourself , I think . 
But I think no , said Balderstone for I can just tell ye a' about the castle on this knowe head as weel as if ye were at it . 
Only dinna pit yoursell into a kippage , and expose yoursell before the weans , or before the Marquis , when ye gang down bye . 
Speak out , you old fool , replied his master , and let me know the best and the worst at once . 
Ou , the best and the warst is , just that the tower is standing hail and feir , as safe and as empty as when ye left it . 
Indeed ! and the fire ? said Ravenswood . 
Not a gleed of fire , then , except the bit kindling peat , and maybe a spunk in Mysie's cutty pipe , replied Caleb . 
Upon my word , I am infinitely obliged by the proposal , Caleb , said his master , scarce able to to restrain his laughter , though rather angry at the same time . 
But the gunpowder is there such a thing in the tower ? The Marquis seemed to know of it . 
Awfu' work we had getting them into the tower under cloud o' night , for ye maun think it wasna everybody could be trusted wi' sic kittle jobs . 
But if ye will gae hame to your supper , I will tell you a' about it as ye gang down . 
But just as your honour likes . 
The boys dispersed upon this comfortable assurance . 
But all this while , Caleb , you have never told me what became of the arms and powder , said Ravenswood . 
Why , as for the arms , said Caleb , it was just like the bairn's rhyme Some gaed east and some gaed west , And some gaed to the craw's nest . 
That was hard indeed , Caleb but I do not see how this fire should help your veracity or your credit . 
'Where's the family pictures ? says ae meddling body . 
'The great fire at Wolf's Crag , answers I. 'Where's the family plate ? says another . 
They sat down to an excellent supper . 
No invitation could prevail on Mr. and Mrs. Girder , even in their own house , to sit down at table with guests of such high quality . 
They remained standing in the apartment , and acted the part of respectful and careful attendants on the company . 
Such were the manners of the time . 
The elder dame , confident through her age and connexion with the Ravenswood family , was less scrupulously ceremonious . 
She played a mixed part betwixt that of the hostess of an inn and the mistress of a private house , who receives guests above her own degree . 
The Marquis occupied the chamber of dais , which , in every house above the rank of a mere cottage , was kept sacred for such high occasions as the present . 
The modern finishing with plaster was then unknown , and tapestry was confined to the houses of the nobility and superior gentry . 
On the toilette beside , stood an old fashioned mirror , in a fillagree frame , part of the dispersed finery of the neighbouring castle . 
It is not necessary we should be equally minute in describing the sleeping apartment of the Master of Ravenswood , which was that usually occupied by the goodman and goodwife themselves . 
It was comfortably hung with a sort of warm coloured worsted , manufactured in Scotland , approaching in trexture to what is now called shalloon . 
The other preparations of the Master's sleeping apartment were similar to those in the chamber of dais . 
At the usual early hour of that period , the Marquis of A and his kinsman prepared to resume their journey . 
All the bustle of preparation for departure now resounded through Wolf's Hope . 
There was paying of bills and shaking of hands , and saddling of horses , and harnessing of carriages , and distributing of drink money . 
But , notwithstanding this legal authority , John could not find in his heart to dim the splendour of his late hospitality by picketing anything in the nature of a gratuity . 
, of the probably change which was about to take place in his fortunes . 
He therefore enjoined Caleb , as he valued his favour , to desist from all farther maneouvres against the inhabitants of Wolf's Hope , their cellars , poultry yards , and substance whatsoever . 
In this prohibition , the old domestic acquiesced more readily than his master expected . 
This matter being settled , and having taken an affectionate farewell of his old domestic , the Master rejoined his noble relative , who was now ready to enter his carriage . 
At length he opened his oracular jaws . 
OUR travellers reach Edinburgh without any farther adventure , and the Master of Ravenswood , as had been previously settled , took up his abode with his noble friend . 
Suffice it to say , that it affected the different political parties according to the nature of their principles . 
But all these excuses availed nothing , and he was compelled to disgorge the property , on receiving back the sum for which it had been mortgaged . 
A third letter Ravenswood addressed to Lucy , and the messenger was instructed to find some secret and secure means of delivering it into her own hands . 
It contained the strongest protestations of continued affection , and dwelt upon the approaching change of the writer's fortunes , as chiefly valuable by tending to remove the impediments to their union . 
He related the steps he had taken to overcome the prejudices of her parents , and especially of her mother , and expressed his hope they might prove effectual . 
Much more there was , which , however interesting to the lovers themselves , would afford the reader neither interest nor information . 
To each of these three letters the Master of Ravenswood received an answer , but by different means of conveyance , and certainly couched in very different styles . 
Lady Ashton answered his leetter by his own messenger , who was not allowed to remain at Ravenswood a moment longer than she was engaged in penning these lines . 
The man bowed , slipt a letter into his hand , and disappeared . 
He flourished much on generosity and forgiveness of mutual injuries , and hinted at the mutability of human affairs , always favourite topics with the weaker party in politics . 
Upon the engagement betwixt Ravenswood and his daughter , he spoke in a dry and confused manner . 
This precipitate measure , he added , had produced a very bad effect upon Lady Ashton's mind , which it was impossible at present to remove . 
Time , the great physician , he hoped , would mend all . 
I am sore beset , but I will be true to my word , while the exercise of my reason is vouchsafed to me . 
That you are happy and prosperous is some consolation , and my situation requires it all . 
The note was signed L. A. This letter filled Ravenswood with the most lively alarm . 
The Master was the more distressed by these circumstances , as it became impossible to delay his departure from Scotland , upon the important mission which had been confided to him . 
But yet , said the Master , I trust your lordship will consider my engagement as sacred . 
The master of Ravenswood could but thank his generous kinsman and patron , and leave him full power to act in all his affairs . 
He departed from Scotland upon his mission , which , it was supposed , might detain him upon the continent for some months . 
Was ever woman in this humor wooed ? Was ever woman in this humour won ? I'll have her . 
They were seated on either side of the huge sepulchral looking freestone chimney in the low hall at Girnington . 
After a long pause , only interrupted by the devil's tattoo , which Bucklaw kept beating against the hearth with the toe of his boot , Craigengelt at last ventured to break silence . 
I do not know , answered the Laird , doggedly , whether I should conclude or not , if it was not that I am too far forwards to leap back . 
Well well , no disrespect meant . 
Will Miss Ashton's tocher not weigh against any in Lothian ? Granted , answered Bucklaw but I care not a penny for her tocher I have enough of my own . 
And Colonel Sholto Douglas Ashton , who desires the marriage above all earthly things ? Because , said Bucklaw , he expects to carry the county of through my interest . 
I must say , the devil's in ye , when ye neither know what you would have nor what you would want . 
Captain Westenho , replied Bucklaw , has rather too much of your own cast about , Craigie , to make what Sir William would call a 'famous witness . 
Why did not Ashton run him through the body ? Capot me if I know , said the Captain . 
He deserved it sure enough but he is an old man , and a minister of state , and there would be more risk than credit in meddling with him . 
It SHALL reach him , though , one day , said Bucklaw , and his kinsman Ravenswood to boot . 
In the mean time , I'll take care Miss Ashton receives no discredit for the slight they have put upon her . 
It grows late , and a night cowl of good claret is worth all the considering caps in Europe . 
It was the copy of our conference . 
THE next morning saw Bucklaw and his faithful Achates , Craigengelt , at Ravenswood Castle . 
They were most courteously received by the knight and his lady , as well , as by their son and heir , Colonel Ashton . 
Sir William and his son looked at Lady Ashton , who replied with the greatest composure , That Lucy would wait upon Mr. Hayston directly . 
The other gentlemen left the room , and in a shrot time Lady Ashton , followed by her daughter , entered the apartment . 
Bucklaw was too much agitated by his own feelings minutely to scrutinise those of the lady . 
He stammered out an unconnected address , confounding together the two or three topics to which it related , and stopt short before he brought it to any regular conclusion . 
Lady Ashton sat at some distance , almost screened from notice by the deep embrasure of the window in which she had placed her chair . 
You know how much your father and I have our hearts set upon an event so extremely desirable . 
In Lady Ashton's voice , a tone of impressive , and even stern , innuendo was sedulously and skilfully concealed under an appearance of the most affectionate maternal tenderness . 
Miss Ashton sat upright in her chair , cast round her a glance in which fear was mingled with a still wilder expression , but remained perfectly silent . 
My dear Bucklaw , said Lady Ashton , let me spare Lucy's bashfulness . 
I tell you , in her presence , that she has already consented to be guided by her father and me in this matter . 
You will not , I am sure , my dear friend , think it is wrong that she should feel much delicacy upon this head indeed , it concerns us all . 
But I thought , said he , pausing , you might have had an answer six times told from Ravenswood . 
D n me , if I have not a mind to go fetch one myself , if Miss Ashton will honour me with the commission . 
Till that time , sir , she said , addressing Bucklaw , let me be thus far beholden to you , that you will beg my mother to forbear me upon this subject . 
I will make it my particular entreaty to Lady Ashton , said Bucklaw . 
Mr. Hayston , I think , cannot comprehend that , said Lady Ashton , looking pale with anger , when the daughter's happiness lies in the bosom of the mother . 
When eight days have elapsed , then , said her mother , resuming her tone of tenderness , we shall hope , my dearest love , that you will end this suspense . 
Miss Ashton must not be hurried , madam , said Bucklaw , whose bluntness of feeling did not by any means arise from want of good nature messengers may be stopped or delayed . 
I have known a day's journey broke by the casting of a foreshoe . 
Stay , let me see my calendar the twentieth day from this is St . 
Sir , said Miss Ashton , you are generous . 
Jude's day , we must all be ready to SIGN AND SEAL . 
Ah ! that's some speech out of your romances , said the boy and Sholto says they have turned your head . 
But I hear Norman whistling to the hawk I must go fasten on the jesses . 
And he scampered away with the thoughtless gaiety of boyhood , leaving his sister to the bitterness of her own reflections . 
It is just it should be thus . 
Alone and uncounselled , I involved myself in these perils alone and uncounselled , I must extricate myself or die . 
The manners of the country in this , as in many other respects , coincided with those of France before the Revolution . 
He knew what all accounted the principal point , that her parents and friends , namely , were decidedly in his favour , and that there existed most powerful reasons for their predilection . 
In truth , the conduct of the Marquis of A , since Ravenswood's departure , had been such as almost to bar the possibility of his kinsman's union with Lucy Ashton . 
And if it thus affected even strangers connected with them only by political party , it may be guessed what the Ashton family themselves said and thought under so gross a dispensation . 
Sir William , still more worldly minded than he was timid , was reduced to despair by the loss by which he was threatened . 
His son's haughtier spirit was exalted into rage at the idea of being deprived of his expected patrimony . 
But to Lady Ashton's yet more vindictive temper the conduct of Ravenswood , or rather of his patron , appeared to be an offence challenging the deepest and most immortal revenge . 
It was my father , she repeated with a sigh , who welcomed him to this place , and encouraged , or at least allowed , the intimacy between us . 
It usually happens that fortune aids the machinations of those who are prompt to avail themselves of every chance that offers . 
The Marquis of A gave his opinion aloud and publicly , not indeed in the coarse terms ascribed to him by Captain Craigengelt , but in a manner sufficiently offensive to the Ashtons . 
He thought the report , he said , highly probably , and heartily wished it might be true . 
Even the boy henry was made the instrument of adding to his sister's torments . 
One morning he rushed into the room with a willow branch in his hand , which he told her had arrived that instant from Germany for her special wearing . 
The boy was moved , notwithstanding the thoughtlessness of his age and character . 
But if I tell you more of these things , Douglas will nto get me the pair of colours they have promised me , and so good morrow to you . 
Indeed , the evidence of Ravenswood's infidelity began to assume every day a more determined character . 
A soldier of fortune , of the name of Westenho , an old familiar of Craigengelt's , chanced to arrive from abroad about this time . 
Thus beset on all hands , and in a manner reduced to despair , Lucy's temper gave way under the pressure of constant affliction and persecution . 
Her health also began to be shaken , and her hectic cheek and wandering eye gave symptoms of what is called a fever upon the spirits . 
THE health of Lucy Ashton soon required the assistance of a person more skilful in the office of a sick nurse than the female domestics of the family . 
Ailsie Gourlay , sometimes called the Wise Woman of Bowden , was the person whom , for her own strong reasons , Lady Ashton selected as an attendant upon her daughter . 
Ailsie Gourlay was not indeed fool enough to acknowledge a compact with the Evil One , which would have been a swift and ready road to the stake and tar barrel . 
Her fairy , she said , like Caliban's , was a harmless fairy . 
Such was Aislie Gourlay , whom , in order to attain the absolute subjugation of Lucy Ashton's mind , her mother thought it fitting to place near her person . 
The beldam caught her cue readily and by innuendo , without giving Lady Ashton the pain of distinct explanation . 
She was in many respects qualified for the part she played , which indeed could not be efficiently assumed without some knowledge of the human heart and passions . 
The old Sycorax saw her advantage , and gradually narrowed her magic circle around the devoted victim on whose spirit she practised . 
Her legends began to relate to the fortunes of the Ravenswood family , whose ancient grandeur and portentous authority credulity had graced with so many superstitious attributes . 
The story of the fatal fountain was narrated at full length , and with formidable additions , by the ancient sibyl . 
Lucy might have despised these tales if they had been related concerning another family , or if her own situation had been less despondent . 
Dame Gourlay knew how to avail herself of this imperfect confidence . 
She directed Lucy's thoughts to the means of inquiring into futurity the surest mode perhaps , of shaking the understanding and destroying the spirits . 
Omens were expounded , dreams were interpreted , and other tricks of jugglery perhaps resorted to , by which the pretended adepts of the period deceived and fascinated their deluded followers . 
But this and some other parts of the record appear to have been studiously left imperfect in names and dates , probably out of regard to the honour of the families concerned . 
Meanwhile , this mysterious visionary traffic had its usual effect in unsettling Miss Ashton's mind . 
Her temper became unequal , her health decayed daily , her manners grew moping , melancholy , and uncertain . 
Let me be assured , she concluded , that he will free me from my engagement , and dispose of me as you please , I care not how . 
In this she was disappointed . 
The time , indeed , had long elapsed when an answer should have been received from the continent . 
The faint ray of hope which still glimmered in Lucy's mind was well nigh extinguished . 
But the idea never forsook her that her letter might not have been duly forwarded . 
One of her mother's new machinations unexpectedly furnished her with the means of ascertaining what she most desired to know . 
But Lady Ashton was mistaken in the agent she had selected . 
This resembled , in the divine's opinion , the union of a Moabitish stranger with a daughter of Zion . 
Lucy eagerly embraced the expedient of the worthy divine . 
At the recommendation of his pastor , Saunders readily undertook that the letter should be securely conveyed to the Master of Ravenswood at the court where he now resided . 
This retrospect became necessary to explain the conference betwixt Miss Ashton , her mother , and Bucklaw which we have detailed in a preceding chapter . 
Week crept away after week , and day after day . 
Jude's day arrived , the last and protracted term to which Lucy had limited herself , and there was neither letter nor news of Ravenswood . 
There was no appearance , however , of her doing either . 
She heard the proposed arrangement with the calm indifference of despair , or rather with an apathy arising from the oppressed and stupified state of her feelings . 
Lucy suffered herself to be attired for the occasion as the taste of her attendants suggested , and was of course splendidly arrayed . 
Her toilette was hardly finished ere Henry appeared , to conduct the passive bride to the state apartment , where all was prepared for signing the contract . 
The boy's chatter was here interrupted by the arrival of Lady Ashton , somewhat alarmed at her daughter's stay . 
With one of her sweetest smiles , she took Lucy's arm under her own . 
Mr. Bide the Bent the presence of a minister being , in strict Presbyterian families , an indispensable requisite upon all occasions of unusual solemnity . 
Wines and refreshments were placed on a table , on which the writings were displayed , ready for signature . 
, and cease from the society that causeth to err . 
It was now Miss Ashton's turn to sign the writings , and she was guided by her watchful mother to the table for that purpose . 
Lady Ashton's vigilance hastened to supply the deficiency . 
The pen dropped from Lucy's fingers , as she exclaimed with a faint shriek He is come he is come ! CHAPTER XXXIII . 
HARDLY had Miss Ashton dropped the pen , when the door of the apartment flew open , and the Master of Ravenswood entered the apartment . 
Apparition it might well be termed , for Ravenswood had more the appearance of one returned from the dead than of a living visitor . 
His dark coloured riding cloak , displaced from one shoulder , hung around one side of his person in the ample folds of the Spanish mantle . 
The rest of his rich dress was travel soiled , and deranged by hard riding . 
He had a sword by his side , and pistols in his belt . 
He said not a single word , and there was a deep silence in the company for more than two minutes . 
It was broken by Lady Ashton , who in that space partly recovered her natural audacity . 
She demanded to know the cause of this unauthorised intrusion . 
Bucklaw interposed , saying , No man on earth should usurp his previous right in demanding an explanation from the Master . 
Craigengelt , he added , in an undertone , d n ye , why do you stand staring as if you saw a ghost ? fetch me my sword from the gallery . 
I will relinquish to none , said Colonel Ashton , my right of calling to account the man who has offered this unparalleled affront to my family . 
Be patient , gentlemen , said Ravenswood , turning sternly towards them , and waving his hand as if to impose silence on their altercation . 
Triflers ! echoed Colonel Ashton , half unsheathing his sword , while Bucklaw laid his hand on the hilt of that which Craigengelt had just reached him . 
Is THAT your handwriting , madam ? he added in a softer tone , extending towards Miss Ashton her last letter . 
A faltering Yes seemed rather to escape from her lips than to be uttered as a voluntary answer . 
And is THIS also your handwriting ? extending towards her the mutual engagement . 
Terror , and a yet stronger and more confused feeling , so utterly disturbed her understanding that she probably scarcely comprehended the question that was put to her . 
If you design , said Sir William Ashton , to found any legal claim on that paper , sir , do not expect to receive any answer to an extrajudicial question . 
Sir William Ashton , said Ravenswood , I pray you , and all who hear me , that you will not mistake my purpose . 
But I must and will hear the truth from her own mouth without this satisfaction I will not leave this spot . 
Murder me by numbers you possibly may but I am an armed man I am a desperate man , and I will nto die without ample vengeance . 
This is my resolution , take it as you may . 
I WILL hear her determination from her own mouth from her own mouth , alone , and without witnesses , will I hear it . 
The clergyman was the first to speak . 
In the name of God , he said , receive an overture of peace from the meanest of His servants . 
What this honourable person demands , albeit it is urged with over violence , hath yet in it something of reason . 
Let it , I say , be this it belongeth to my functions to entreat your honours' compliance with this headling overture . 
I fear neither his violence nor his weapons , though some , she said , glancing a look towards Colonel Ashton , who bear my name appear more moved by them . 
For God's sake , madam , answered the worthy divine , add not fuel to firebrands . 
The Master of Ravenswood cannot , I am sure , object to your presence , the young lady's state of health being considered , and your maternal duty . 
I myself will also tarry peradventure my grey hairs may turn away wrath . 
You are welcome to do so , sir , said Ravenswood and Lady Ashton is also welcome to remain , if she shall think proper but let all others depart . 
Ravenswood , said Colonel Ashton , crossing him as he went out , you shall account for this ere long . 
When you please , replied Ravenswood . 
But I , said Bucklaw , with a half smile , have a prior demand on your leisure , a claim of some standing . 
The other gentlemen left the apartment but Sir William Ashton lingered . 
Master of Ravenswood , he said , in a conciliating tone , I think I have not deserved that you should make this scandal and outrage in my family . 
He pointed to the door , and Sir William left the apartment . 
I pray you to be patient , madam , answered Ravenswood my answer must come from her own lips . 
Once more , Miss Lucy Ashton , I am that Ravenswood to whom you granted the solemn engagement which you now desire to retract and cancel . 
Lucy's bloodless lips could only falter out the words , It was my mother . 
Scripture ! said Ravenswood , scornfully . 
And was it not even so with us ? interrrupted Ravenswood . 
The very dead have arisen to warn me , and their warning has been despised . 
You see the total incapacity of my daughter to answer you . 
But I will reply for her , and in a manner which you cannot dispute . 
You desire to know whether Lucy Ashton , of her own free will , desires to annual the engagement into which she has been trepanned . 
Ravenswood gazed upon the deed as if petrified . 
And it was without fraud or compulsion , said he , looking towards the clergyman , that Miss Ashton subscribed this parchment ? I couch it upon my sacred character . 
This is indeed , madam , an undeniable piece of evidence , said Ravenswood , sternly and it will be equally unnecessary and dishonourable to waste another word in useless remonstrance or reproach . 
I will trouble you to return the corresponding tokens of my ill placed confidence I ought rather to say , of my egregious folly . 
With a haughty courtesy , she delivered both to Ravenswood , who was much softened when he took the piece of gold . 
I will be no longer , he then said , an intruder here . 
Your evil wishes , and your worse offices , Lady Ashton , I will only return by hoping these will be your last machinations against your daughter's honour and happiness . 
Having uttered these words , he turned on his heel and left the apartment . 
Tell Colonel Ashton , said Ravenswood , composedly , I shall be found at Wolf's Crag when his leisure serves him . 
Tell your master , said Ravenswood , fiercely , to choose his own time . 
He will find me at Wolf's Crag , if his purpose is not forestalled . 
MY master ! replied Craigengelt , encouraged by seeing Colonel Ashton and Bucklaw at the bottom of the terrace . 
I am a fool , he instantly added , to vent my passion upon a caitiff so worthless . 
Ravenswood walked on with equal deliberation until he reached the head of the avenue , as if to show that he rather courted than avoided interruption . 
Who comes from the bridal chamber ? It is Azrael , the angel of death . 
AFTER the dreadful scene that had taken place at the castle , Lucy was transported to her own chamber , where she remained for some time in a state of absolute stupor . 
Lady Ashton became much alarmed and consulted the family physicians . 
But as her pulse indicated no change , they could only say that the disease was on the spirits , and recommended gentle exercise and amusement . 
Miss Ashton never alluded to what had passed in the state room . 
Notwithstanding all these remarkable symptoms , Lady Ashton was too deeply pledged to delay her daughter's marriage even in her present state of health . 
It cost her much trouble to keep up the fair side of appearances towards Bucklaw . 
She was well aware , that if he once saw any reluctance on her daughter's part , he would break off the treaty , to her great personal shame and dishonour . 
Bucklaw would indeed have been incapable of such precipitation , had he been aware of the state of Miss Ashton's health , or rather of her mind . 
, which the different members of the family had prepared for the occasion . 
The morning dawned bright and cheerily . 
The bridal guests assembled in gallant troops from distant quarters . 
Splendid refreshments awaited the guests on their arrival , and after these were finished , the cray was To horse . 
The bride was led forth betwixt her brother Henry and her mother . 
Her gaiety of the preceding day had given rise place to a deep shade of melancholy , which , however , did not misbecome an occasion so momentous . 
You put it out of the way yourself , I suppose , said his father , out of ambition to wear that preposterous thing , which might have served Sir William Wallace . 
But never mind , get to horse now , and take care of your sister . 
The boy did so , and was placed in the centre of the gallant train . 
The marriage ceremony was performed according to the rites of the Presbyterian persuasion , to which Bucklaw of late had judged it proper to conform . 
Johnie Mortheuch , said Annie Winnie , might hae minded auld lang syne , and thought of his auld kimmers , for as braw as he is with his new black coat . 
Mine , quo' she ! mumbled the paralytic hag mine is half banes , I trow . 
If grit folk gie poor bodies ony thing for coming to their weddings and burials , it suld be something that wad do them gude , I think . 
Their gifts , said Ailsie Gourlay , are dealt for nae love of us , nor out of respect for whether we feed or starve . 
And that's truly said , answered her companion . 
Her sand has but few grains to rin out and nae wonder they've been weel shaken . 
The leaves are withering fast on the trees , but she'll never see the Martinmas wind gar them dance in swirls like the fairy rings . 
But he may keep it for his ain leddy , cummers . 
I hae heard a sough , said Annie Winnie , as if Leddy Ashton was nae canny body . 
Let's see if the pins haud , Johnie that's a' , lad . 
I take ye a' to witness , gude people , said Morheuch , that she threatens me wi' mischief , and forespeaks me . 
If ony thing but gude happens to me or my fiddle this night , I'll make it the blackest night's job she ever stirred in . 
I'll hae her before presbytery and synod I'm half a minister mysell , now that I'm a bedral in an inhabited parish . 
Thus accompanied with the attendance both of rich and poor , Lucy returned to her father's house . 
They reached the castle in safety , amid a thousand joyous acclamations . 
It is well known that the weddings of ancient days were celebrated with a festive publicity rejected by the delicacy of modern times . 
The music already rung from the gallery , along the fretted roof of the ancient state apartment . 
The exchange must have been made while the apartments were empty , but had not been observed until the torches and lights in the sconces were kindled for the ball . 
Apparently she found her apprehensions groundless , for she returned in about an hour , and whispered the bridegroom , who extricated himself from the dancers , and vanished from the apartment . 
The bridal guests waited their return in stupified amazement . 
Arrived at the door of the apartment , Colonel Ashton knocked and called , but received no answer except stifled groans . 
He hesitated no longer to open the door of the apartment , in which he found opposition from something which lay against it . 
When he had succeeded in opening it , the body of the bridegroom was found lying on the threshold of the bridal chamber , and all around was flooded with blood . 
A cry of surprise and horror was raised by all present and the company , excited by this new alarm , began to rush tumultuously towards the sleeping apartment . 
In the mean while , Lady Ashton , her husband , and their assistants in vain sought Lucy in the bridal bed and in the chamber . 
When she saw herself discovered , she gibbered , made mouths , and pointed at them with her bloody fingers , with the frantic gestures of an exulting demoniac . 
Female assistance was now hastily summoned the unhappy bride was overpowered , not without the use of some force . 
This silenced the numerous party of Bucklaw's friends , who had previously insisted that he should , at all rates , be transported from the castle to the nearest of their houses . 
The cares of the medical man were next employed in behalf of Miss Ashton , whom he pronounced to be in a very dangerous state . 
Farther medical assistance was immediately summoned . 
All night she remained delirious . 
On the morning , she fell into a state of absolute insensibility . 
The next evening , the physicians said , would be the crisis of her malady . 
Convulsion followed convulsion , till they closed in death , without her being able to utter a word explanatory of the fatal scene . 
But there occurred nothing to explain the general hypothesis that the bride , in a sudden fit of insanity , had stabbed the bridegroom at the threshold of the apartment . 
The fatal weapon was found in the chamber smeared with blood . 
I wish you all , he said , my friends , to understand , however , that I have neither story to tell nor injuries to avenge . 
He dismissed Craigengelt from his society , but not without such a provision as , if well employed , might secure him against indigence and against temptation . 
Bucklaw afterwards went abroad , and never returned to Scotland nor was he known ever to hint at the circumstances attending his fatal marriage . 
WE have anticipated the course of time to mention Bucklaw's recovery and fate , that we might not interrupt the detail of events which succeeded the funeral of the unfortunate Lucy Ashton . 
This melancholy ceremony was performed in the misty dawn of an autumnal morning , with such moderate attendance and ceremony as could not possibly be dispensed with . 
They were a' glistening wi' gowd and silver they're now as black as the crook . 
And Miss Lucy Ashton , that grudged when an honest woman came near her a taid may sit on her coffin that day , and she can never scunner when he croaks . 
I counted them , said the other , with the eagerness of a person to whom the spectacle had afforded too much interest to be viewed with indifference . 
And thus , croaking like the ravens when they anticipate pestilence , the ill boding sibyls withdrew from the churchyard . 
To this sequestered spot Colonel Ashton had guided the stranger , and then turning round , addressed him in a stern and composed tone . 
I cannot doubt that I speak to the Master of Ravenswood ? No answer was returned . 
If you repent what you have done , said the Colonel , may your penitence avail you before God with me it shall serve you nothing . 
Here , he said , giving a paper , is the measure of my sword , and a memorandum of the time and place of meeting . 
Sunrise to morrow morning , on the links to the east of Wolf's Hope . 
The Master of Ravenswood held the paper in his hand , and seemed irresolute . 
At length he spoke Do not , he said , urge to farther desperation a wretch who is already desperate . 
Enjoy your life while you can , and let me seek my death from another . 
That you never , never shall ! said Douglas Ashton . 
You shall die by my hand , or you shall complete the ruin of my family by taking my life . 
I accept your challenge , time , and place of meeting . 
We meet , I presume , alone ? Alone we meet , said Colonel Ashton , and alone will the survivor of us return from that place of rendezvous . 
Then God have mercy on the soul of him who falls ! said Ravenswood . 
So be it ! said Colonel Ashton so far can my charity reach even for the man I hate most deadly , and with the deepest reason . 
Now , break off , for we shall be interrupted . 
The links by the sea shore to the east of Wolf's Hope the hour , sunrise our swords our only weapons . 
Enough , said the Master , I will not fail you . 
They separated Colonel Ashton joining the rest of the mourners , and the Master of Ravenswood taking his horse , which was tied to a tree behind the church . 
It is not known how the Master of Ravenswood disposed of the rest of that unhappy day . 
Late at night , however , he arrived at Wolf's Crag , and aroused his old domestic , Caleb Balderstone , who had ceased to expect his return . 
The conduct of Ravenswood did not alleviate his apprehensions . 
Seeing that his master would eat nothing , the old man affectionately entreated that he would permit him to light him to his chamber . 
It was not until the request was three or four times repeated that Ravenswood made a mute sign of compliance . 
But when Balderstone conducted him to an apartment which had been comfortably fitted up , and which , since his return , he had usually occupied , Ravenswood stopped short on the threshold . 
Not here , said he , sternly show me the room in which my father died the room in which SHE slept the night the were at the castle . 
Who , sir ? said Caleb , too terrified to preserve his presence of mind . 
It was early in November , and the weather was serene for the season of the year . 
But an easterly wind had prevailed during the night , and the advancing tide rolled nearer than usual to the foot of the crags on which the castle was founded . 
He muttered to himself , as he selected one of these weapons It is shorter let him have this advantage , as he has every other . 
Caleb Balderstone knew too well , from what he witnessed , upon what enterprise his master was bound , and how vain all interference on his part must necessarily prove . 
He had but time to retreat from the door , so nearly was he surprised by his master suddenly coming out and descending to the stables . 
He found him busily engaged in saddling his horse , a service from which Caleb , though with faltering voice and trembling hands , offered to relieve him . 
I am but a servant but I was born your father's your grandfather's servant . 
Caleb ! he said , with a ghastly smile , I make you my executor and again turning his bridle , he resumed his course down the hill . 
Observing him take this course , Caleb hastened to the eastern battlement , which commanded the prospect of the whole sands , very near as far as the village of Wolf's Hope . 
He could easily see his master riding in that direction , as fast as the horse could carry him . 
He saw him according reach the fatal spot but he never saw him pass further . 
Colonel Ashton , frantic for revenge , was already in the field , pacing the turf with eagerness , and looking with impatience towards the Tower for the arrival of his antagonist . 
At once the figure became invisible , as if it had melted into the air . 
One only vestige of his fate appeared . 
A large sable feather had been detached from his hat , and the rippling waves of the rising tide wafted it to Caleb's feet . 
The old man took it up , dried it , and placed it in his bosom . 
The inhabitants of Wolf's Hope were now alarmed , and crowded to the place , some on shore , and some in boats , but their search availed nothing . 
The tenacious depths of the quicksand , as is usual in such cases , retained its prey . 
Our tale draws to a conclusion . 
The family of Ashton did not long survive that of Ravenswood . 
Sir William Ashton outlived his eldest son , the Colonel , who was slain in a duel in Flanders and Henry , by whom he was succeeded , died unmarried . 
Lady Ashton lived to the verge of extreme old age , the only survivor of the group of unhappy persons whose misfortunes were owing to her implacability . 
In all external appearance she bore the same bold , haughty , unbending character which she had displayed before these unhappy events . 
A splendid marble monument records her name , titles , and virtues , while her victims remain undistinguished by tomb or epitath . 
