it would have been difficult for the uninitiated to guess the precise nature of the business carried on within . 
On each side of its modest three stories stood higher buildings , with fronts of brown stone , cracked and blistered , cast iron balconies and cat haunted grass patches behind twisted railings . 
The sole refuge offered from the contemplation of this depressing waste was the sight of the Bunner Sisters' window . 
The Bunner sisters were proud of the neatness of their shop and content with its humble prosperity . 
In honour of some event of obvious importance , she had put on her double dyed and triple turned black silk . 
The younger Bunner sister , who was a little taller than her elder , had a more pronounced nose , but a weaker slope of mouth and chin . 
In her scant jacket and skirt of black cashmere she looked singularly nipped and faded but it seemed possible that under happier conditions she might still warm into relative youth . 
Why , Evelina , why shouldn't I , I sh'ld like to know ? Ain't it your birthday , dear ? She put out her arms with the awkwardness of habitually repressed emotion . 
Evelina , without seeming to notice the gesture , threw back the jacket from her narrow shoulders . 
Oh , pshaw , she said , less peevishly . 
I guess we'd better give up birthdays . 
Much as we can do to keep Christmas nowadays . 
You hadn't oughter say that , Evelina . 
We ain't so badly off as all that . 
I guess you're cold and tired . 
Set down while I take the kettle off it's right on the boil . 
She pushed Evelina toward the table , keeping a sideward eye on her sister's listless movements , while her own hands were busy with the kettle . 
A moment later came the exclamation for which she waited . 
Why , Ann Eliza ! Evelina stood transfixed by the sight of the parcel beside her plate . 
Ann Eliza , tremulously engaged in filling the teapot , lifted a look of hypocritical surprise . 
Oh , Ann Eliza , how could you ? She set the clock down , and the sisters exchanged agitated glances across the table . 
We've always wanted a clock and now we've got one that's all there is about it . 
Hear how loud she ticks . 
I was afraid you'd hear her soon as you come in . 
No. I wasn't thinking , murmured Evelina . 
Well , ain't you glad now ? Ann Eliza gently reproached her . 
The rebuke had no acerbity , for she knew that Evelina's seeming indifference was alive with unexpressed scruples . 
I'm real glad , sister but you hadn't oughter . 
We could have got on well enough without . 
Evelina Bunner , just you sit down to your tea . 
What do I need , I'd like to know ? Ain't I got a best black silk ? the elder sister said with a laugh full of nervous pleasure . 
She poured out Evelina's tea , adding some condensed milk from the jug , and cutting for her the largest slice of pie then she drew up her own chair to the table . 
The two women ate in silence for a few moments before Evelina began to speak again . 
The clock is perfectly lovely and I don't say it ain't a comfort to have it but I hate to think what it must have cost you . 
No , it didn't , neither , Ann Eliza retorted . 
I got it dirt cheap , if you want to know . 
And I paid for it out of a little extra work I did the other night on the machine for Mrs. Hawkins . 
The baby waists ? Yes . 
There , I knew it ! You swore to me you'd buy a new pair of shoes with that money . 
Very well , I won't , said the younger sister . 
They continued to eat without farther words . 
Where'd you get it , Ann Eliza ? asked Evelina , fascinated . 
Where'd you s'pose ? Why , right round here , over acrost the Square , in the queerest little store you ever laid eyes on . 
I saw it in the window as I was passing , and I stepped right in and asked how much it was , and the store keeper he was real pleasant about it . 
He was just the nicest man . 
I guess he's a German . 
I told him I couldn't give much , and he said , well , he knew what hard times was too . 
His name's Ramy Herman Ramy I saw it written up over the store . 
I guess he's real smart , and he spoke quite like an educated man but he looks sick . 
Evelina was listening with absorbed attention . 
In the narrow lives of the two sisters such an episode was not to be under rated . 
What you say his name was ? she asked as Ann Eliza paused . 
How old is he ? Well , I couldn't exactly tell you , he looked so sick but I don't b'lieve he's much over forty . 
By this time the plates had been cleared and the teapot emptied , and the two sisters rose from the table . 
Evelina , meanwhile , had been roaming about the room in search of an abiding place for the clock . 
II The purchase of Evelina's clock had been a more important event in the life of Ann Eliza Bunner than her younger sister could divine . 
The infrequency of her walks made them the chief events of her life . 
In either case , his life was assuredly a sad one and she passed many hours in speculating on the manner in which he probably spent his evenings . 
Whenever she reached this stage in her reflexions she lifted a furtive glance to the clock , whose loud staccato tick was becoming a part of her inmost being . 
The seed sown by these long hours of meditation germinated at last in the secret wish to go to market some morning in Evelina's stead . 
As this purpose rose to the surface of Ann Eliza's thoughts she shrank back shyly from its contemplation . 
A plan so steeped in duplicity had never before taken shape in her crystalline soul . 
Oh , Ann Eliza , they'll cheat you so , her sister wailed . 
The morning was damp and cold , with a sky full of sulky clouds that would not make room for the sun , but as yet dropped only an occasional snow flake . 
A few minutes' walk brought her to the market where Evelina made her purchases , and where , if he had any sense of topographical fitness , Mr. Ramy must also deal . 
Oh , that's all right . 
The butcher picked up his weapon with a grin . 
Your sister knows a cut as well as any of us , he remarked . 
In another moment , Ann Eliza reflected , the steak would be cut and wrapped up , and no choice left her but to turn her disappointed steps toward home . 
Wait on her first , please , Ann Eliza whispered . 
I ain't in any hurry . 
They were still unresolved when she was interrupted by the entrance of a blowsy Irish girl with a basket on her arm . 
There followed a colourless week unmarked by farther incident . 
With Evelina such fits of discontent were habitual and openly proclaimed , and Ann Eliza still excused them as one of the prerogatives of youth . 
Hitherto opportunity had played her false and for all her superior aspirations and carefully crimped hair she had remained as obscure and unsought as Ann Eliza . 
But the elder sister , who had long since accepted her own fate , had never accepted Evelina's . 
Once a pleasant young man who taught in Sunday school had paid the younger Miss Bunner a few shy visits . 
That was years since , and he had speedily vanished from their view . 
Whether he had carried with him any of Evelina's illusions , Ann Eliza had never discovered but his attentions had clad her sister in a halo of exquisite possibilities . 
Ann Eliza , in those days , had never dreamed of allowing herself the luxury of self pity it seemed as much a personal right of Evelina's as her elaborately crinkled hair . 
But now she began to transfer to herself a portion of the sympathy she had so long bestowed on Evelina . 
She had at last recognized her right to set up some lost opportunities of her own and once that dangerous precedent established , they began to crowd upon her memory . 
It was at this stage of Ann Eliza's transformation that Evelina , looking up one evening from her work , said suddenly My ! She's stopped . 
Ann Eliza , raising her eyes from a brown merino seam , followed her sister's glance across the room . 
It was a Monday , and they always wound the clock on Sundays . 
Are you sure you wound her yesterday , Evelina ? Jest as sure as I live . 
Evelina laid down the hat she was trimming , and took the clock from its shelf . 
And I guess , she added , you'll have to step round to Mr. Ramy's to morrow , and see if he can fix her . 
I yes , I guess I'll have to , she stammered , stooping to pick up a spool of cotton which had rolled to the floor . 
A sudden heart throb stretched the seams of her flat alpaca bosom , and a pulse leapt to life in each of her temples . 
Miss Mellins was the dress maker upstairs , and the weak eyed child one of her youthful apprentices . 
Ann Eliza started from her seat . 
A moment later , cordial in hand , Ann Eliza was hurrying upstairs behind the weak eyed child . 
It was empty , as usual , and Evelina sat at her pinking machine in the back room . 
Why , she's going ! she gasped , before Evelina could question her about Miss Mellins . 
Ain't it lovely to hear her going again ? But tell me about Miss Mellins , quick ! For a moment Ann Eliza found no words . 
Not till she learned that she had missed her chance did she understand how many hopes had hung upon it . 
Even now she did not know why she had wanted so much to see the clock maker again . 
I s'pose it's because nothing's ever happened to me , she thought , with a twinge of envy for the fate which gave Evelina every opportunity that came their way . 
Evelina understood at once that the reference was not to Miss Mellins . 
Yes at least he thinks so , she answered , helping herself as a matter of course to the first cup of tea . 
On'y to think ! murmured Ann Eliza . 
But he isn't SURE , Evelina continued , absently pushing the teapot toward her sister . 
It may be something wrong with the I forget what he called it . 
Anyhow , he said he'd call round and see , day after to morrow , after supper . 
Who said ? gasped Ann Eliza . 
Why , Mr. Ramy , of course . 
I think he's real nice , Ann Eliza . 
And I don't believe he's forty but he DOES look sick . 
I guess he's pretty lonesome , all by himself in that store . 
He as much as told me so , and somehow Evelina paused and bridled I kinder thought that maybe his saying he'd call round about the clock was on'y just an excuse . 
He said it just as I was going out of the store . 
What you think , Ann Eliza ? Oh , I don't har'ly know . 
To save herself , Ann Eliza could produce nothing warmer . 
Her self consciousness irritated Ann Eliza . 
I guess he's got plenty of friends of his own , she said , almost harshly . 
No , he ain't , either . 
Did he tell you that too ? Even to her own ears there was a faint sneer in the interrogation . 
Yes , he did , said Evelina , dropping her lids with a smile . 
He seemed to be just crazy to talk to somebody somebody agreeable , I mean . 
I think the man's unhappy , Ann Eliza . 
So do I , broke from the elder sister . 
He seems such an educated man , too . 
He was reading the paper when I went in . 
I think he'd a' told me everything ever happened to him if I'd had the time to stay and listen . 
I tell you he's dead lonely , Ann Eliza . 
Yes , said Ann Eliza . 
I hate to see food mussing about , she grumbled . 
Ain't it hateful having to do everything in one room ? Oh , Evelina , I've always thought we was so comfortable , Ann Eliza protested . 
There was something vaguely embarrassing in Evelina's suggestion . 
I always think if we ask for more what we have may be taken from us , she ventured . 
Well , whoever took it wouldn't get much , Evelina retorted with a laugh as she swept up the table cloth . 
A few moments later the back room was in its usual flawless order and the two sisters had seated themselves near the lamp . 
Ann Eliza had taken up her sewing , and Evelina was preparing to make artificial flowers . 
Ann Eliza made no remark on this unusual proceeding perhaps she guessed why , for that evening her sister had chosen a graceful task . 
Presently a knock on the outer door made them look up but Evelina , the first on her feet , said promptly Sit still . 
I'll see who it is . 
Ann Eliza was glad to sit still the baby's petticoat that she was stitching shook in her fingers . 
Ann Eliza let her work fall as she stood up . 
You're very welcome , I'm sure , Mr. Ramy . 
It's real kind of you to call . 
Nod ad all , ma'am . 
I don't like to led any clock go out of my store without being sure it gives satisfaction , he added . 
Oh but we were satisfied , Ann Eliza assured him . 
But I wasn't , you see , ma'am , said Mr. Ramy looking slowly about the room , nor I won't be , not till I see that clock's going all right . 
May I assist you off with your coat , Mr. Ramy ? Evelina interposed . 
She could never trust Ann Eliza to remember these opening ceremonies . 
Ann Eliza's social sense was roused , and she felt that the next act of hospitality must be hers . 
Won't you suit yourself to a seat ? she suggested . 
My sister will reach down the clock but I'm sure she's all right again . 
She's went beautiful ever since you fixed her . 
Dat's good , said Mr. Ramy . 
As he took the lamp , the light fell on his bulging forehead and wide skull thinly covered with grayish hair . 
His hands were pale and broad , with knotty joints and square finger tips rimmed with grime but his touch was as light as a woman's . 
Well , ladies , dat clock's all right , he pronounced . 
I'm sure we're very much obliged to you , said Evelina , throwing a glance at her sister . 
Oh , Ann Eliza murmured , involuntarily answering the admonition . 
It's a very cold night , she said , and maybe you'd like a sip of this cordial . 
It was made a great while ago by our grandmother . 
It looks fine , said Mr. Ramy bowing , and Ann Eliza filled the glasses . 
In her own and Evelina's she poured only a few drops , but she filled their guest's to the brim . 
My sister and I seldom take wine , she explained . 
With another bow , which included both his hostesses , Mr. Ramy drank off the cherry brandy and pronounced it excellent . 
Evelina meanwhile , with an assumption of industry intended to put their guest at ease , had taken up her instruments and was twisting a rose petal into shape . 
You make artificial flowers , I see , ma'am , said Mr. Ramy with interest . 
I had a lady vriend in Shermany dat used to make flowers . 
He put out a square finger tip to touch the petal . 
You left Germany long ago , I suppose ? Dear me yes , a goot while ago . 
I was only ninedeen when I come to the States . 
The note of wistfulness in his voice was obscurely moving to Ann Eliza . 
Oh , we live very plainly , said Evelina , with an affectation of grandeur deeply impressive to her sister . 
We have very simple tastes . 
You look real comfortable , anyhow , said Mr. Ramy . 
His bulging eyes seemed to muster the details of the scene with a gentle envy . 
I wisht I had as good a store but I guess no blace seems home like when you're always alone in it . 
But to Ann Eliza and her sister there was nothing surprising in his abrupt retreat . 
After he had left both sisters remained silent for a while then Evelina , laying aside her unfinished flower , said I'll go and lock up . 
It was perhaps with the idea of relieving the tension of their mood that Evelina , the following Sunday , suggested inviting Miss Mellins to supper . 
Miss Mellins was a small woman with a glossy yellow face and a frizz of black hair bristling with imitation tortoise shell pins . 
Her sleeves had a fashionable cut , and half a dozen metal bangles rattled on her wrists . 
Her voice rattled like her bangles as she poured forth a stream of anecdote and ejaculation and her round black eyes jumped with acrobatic velocity from one face to another . 
Miss Mellins was always having or hearing of amazing adventures . 
Mercy ! murmured Ann Eliza , a ripple of sympathy running down her spine . 
D'you ever have spasms before , Miss Mellins ? Evelina asked . 
Yes , ma'am , the dress maker declared . 
Goodness , said Evelina , starting , there's a knock ! Who can it be ? shuddered Ann Eliza , still under the spell of Miss Mellins's hallucination . 
Evelina rose and lit a candle to guide her through the shop . 
Ann Eliza's heart rocked like a boat in a heavy sea , and the dress maker's eyes , distended with curiosity , sprang eagerly from face to face . 
I just thought I'd call in again , said Mr. Ramy , evidently somewhat disconcerted by the presence of Miss Mellins . 
Just to see how the clock's behaving , he added with his hollow cheeked smile . 
Oh , she's behaving beautiful , said Ann Eliza but we're real glad to see you all the same . 
Miss Mellins , let me make you acquainted with Mr. Ramy . 
The dress maker tossed back her head and dropped her lids in condescending recognition of the stranger's presence and Mr. Ramy responded by an awkward bow . 
After the first moment of constraint a renewed sense of satisfaction filled the consciousness of the three women . 
The table cleared , Ann Eliza suggested a game of cards and it was after eleven o'clock when Mr. Ramy rose to take leave . 
Well , well , Miss Bunner , she murmured , jerking her chin in the direction of the retreating figures , I'd no idea your sister was keeping company . 
On'y to think ! Ann Eliza , roused from a state of dreamy beatitude , turned her timid eyes on the dress maker . 
Oh , you're mistaken , Miss Mellins . 
We don't har'ly know Mr. Ramy . 
You go 'long , Miss Bunner . 
I guess there'll be a wedding somewheres round here before spring , and I'll be real offended if I ain't asked to make the dress . 
I've always seen her in a gored satin with rooshings . 
Ann Eliza made no answer . 
She had grown very pale , and her eyes lingered searchingly on Evelina as the younger sister re entered the room . 
Evelina's cheeks were pink , and her blue eyes glittered but it seemed to Ann Eliza that the coquettish tilt of her head regrettably emphasized the weakness of her receding chin . 
It was the first time that Ann Eliza had ever seen a flaw in her sister's beauty , and her involuntary criticism startled her like a secret disloyalty . 
That night , after the light had been put out , the elder sister knelt longer than usual at her prayers . 
In the silence of the darkened room she was offering up certain dreams and aspirations whose brief blossoming had lent a transient freshness to her days . 
She wondered now how she could ever have supposed that Mr. Ramy's visits had another cause than the one Miss Mellins suggested . 
V During the months that followed , Mr. Ramy visited the sisters with increasing frequency . 
When Mr. Ramy drew the pipe from his mouth and became , in his turn , confidential , the acuteness of their sympathy grew almost painful to the sisters . 
With passionate participation they listened to the story of his early struggles in Germany , and of the long illness which had been the cause of his recent misfortunes . 
After their first breathless Oh ! of pleasure there was a silence of mutual consultation , which Ann Eliza at last broke by saying You better go with Mr. Ramy , Evelina . 
I guess we don't both want to leave the store at night . 
Evelina , with such protests as politeness demanded , acquiesced in this opinion , and spent the next day in trimming a white chip bonnet with forget me nots of her own making . 
It must have gone wrong again , she reflected as she rose to let her sister in . 
The evening had been brilliantly interesting , and several striking stereopticon views of Berlin had afforded Mr. Ramy the opportunity of enlarging on the marvels of his native city . 
He said he'd love to show it all to me ! Evelina declared as Ann Eliza conned her glowing face . 
Did you ever hear anything so silly ? I didn't know which way to look . 
Ann Eliza received this confidence with a sympathetic murmur . 
My bonnet IS becoming , isn't it ? Evelina went on irrelevantly , smiling at her reflection in the cracked glass above the chest of drawers . 
You're jest lovely , said Ann Eliza . 
I was just that foolish , she answered Ann Eliza's wondering glance , I couldn't help buyin' 'em . 
I felt as if I must have something pretty to look at right away . 
Oh , sister , said Ann Eliza , in trembling sympathy . 
She felt that special indulgence must be conceded to those in Evelina's state since she had had her own fleeting vision of such mysterious longings as the words betrayed . 
Ain't they pretty ? she kept repeating as she gathered the flowers into a starry circle . 
Seems as if spring was really here , don't it ? Ann Eliza remembered that it was Mr. Ramy's evening . 
When he came , the Teutonic eye for anything that blooms made him turn at once to the jonquils . 
Ain't dey pretty ? he said . 
Seems like as if de spring was really here . 
Don't it ? Evelina exclaimed , thrilled by the coincidence of their thought . 
It's just what I was saying to my sister . 
Ann Eliza got up suddenly and moved away she remembered that she had not wound the clock the day before . 
Evelina was sitting at the table the jonquils rose slenderly between herself and Mr. Ramy . 
Oh , she murmured with vague eyes , how I'd love to get away somewheres into the country this very minute somewheres where it was green and quiet . 
Seems as if I couldn't stand the city another day . 
But Ann Eliza noticed that she was looking at Mr. Ramy , and not at the flowers . 
I guess we might go to Cendral Park some Sunday , their visitor suggested . 
Do you ever go there , Miss Evelina ? No , we don't very often leastways we ain't been for a good while . 
She sparkled at the prospect . 
It would be lovely , wouldn't it , Ann Eliza ? Why , yes , said the elder sister , coming back to her seat . 
Well , why don't we go next Sunday ? Mr. Ramy continued . 
And we'll invite Miss Mellins too that'll make a gosy little party . 
That night when Evelina undressed she took a jonquil from the vase and pressed it with a certain ostentation between the leaves of her prayer book . 
Ann Eliza , covertly observing her , felt that Evelina was not sorry to be observed , and that her own acute consciousness of the act was somehow regarded as magnifying its significance . 
The following Sunday broke blue and warm . 
All the alleys were thronged with promenaders and obstructed by perambulators and Miss Mellins's running commentary threw a glare of lurid possibilities over the placid family groups and their romping progeny . 
At length Evelina's feet also failed her , and she turned to suggest that they ought to be going home . 
Her flushed face had grown pale with fatigue , but her eyes were radiant . 
The return lived in Ann Eliza's memory with the persistence of an evil dream . 
The horse cars were packed with the returning throng , and they had to let a dozen go by before they could push their way into one that was already crowded . 
Ann Eliza had never before felt so tired . 
Ann Eliza understood and reddened . 
Why , yes , to be sure , she agreed . 
Mr. Ramy said if he was us he wouldn't want to leave his money there any longer'n he could help . 
It was over a week ago he said it , Evelina reminded her . 
I know but he told me to wait till he'd found out for sure about that other investment and we ain't seen him since then . 
Ann Eliza's words released their secret fear . 
I wonder what's happened to him , Evelina said . 
You don't suppose he could be sick ? I was wondering too , Ann Eliza rejoined and the sisters looked down at their plates . 
I should think you'd oughter do something about that money pretty soon , Evelina began again . 
Well , I know I'd oughter . 
The words pierced Ann Eliza like a blade . 
Yes , that's so , she said . 
It would only seem friendly , if he really IS sick . 
If I was you I'd go to day , Evelina continued and after dinner Ann Eliza went . 
On the way she had to leave a parcel at the dyer's , and having performed that errand she turned toward Mr. Ramy's shop . 
Never before had she felt so old , so hopeless and humble . 
She knew she was bound on a love errand of Evelina's , and the knowledge seemed to dry the last drop of young blood in her veins . 
It took from her , too , all her faded virginal shyness and with a brisk composure she turned the handle of the clock maker's door . 
But as she entered her heart began to tremble , for she saw Mr. Ramy , his face hidden in his hands , sitting behind the counter in an attitude of strange dejection . 
At the click of the latch he looked up slowly , fixing a lustreless stare on Ann Eliza . 
For a moment she thought he did not know her . 
Oh , you're sick ! she exclaimed and the sound of her voice seemed to recall his wandering senses . 
You ARE sick , she persisted , emboldened by his evident need of help . 
Mr. Ramy , it was real unfriendly of you not to let us know . 
He continued to look at her with dull eyes . 
I ain't been sick , he said . 
Leastways not very only one of my old turns . 
He spoke in a slow laboured way , as if he had difficulty in getting his words together . 
Rheumatism ? she ventured , seeing how unwillingly he seemed to move . 
Well somethin' like , maybe . 
I couldn't hardly put a name to it . 
At the mention of tea an expression of uncontrollable repugnance passed over Mr. Ramy's face . 
Oh , I guess I'm getting on all right . 
I've just got a headache to day . 
Ann Eliza's courage dropped at the note of refusal in his voice . 
I'm sorry , she said gently . 
My sister and me'd have been glad to do anything we could for you . 
Thank you kindly , said Mr. Ramy wearily then , as she turned to the door , he added with an effort Maybe I'll step round to morrow . 
We'll be real glad , Ann Eliza repeated . 
Her eyes were fixed on a dusty bronze clock in the window . 
She was unaware of looking at it at the time , but long afterward she remembered that it represented a Newfoundland dog with his paw on an open book . 
When she reached home there was a purchaser in the shop , turning over hooks and eyes under Evelina's absent minded supervision . 
Ann Eliza passed hastily into the back room , but in an instant she heard her sister at her side . 
Quick ! I told her I was goin' to look for some smaller hooks how is he ? Evelina gasped . 
He ain't been very well , said Ann Eliza slowly , her eyes on Evelina's eager face but he says he'll be sure to be round to morrow night . 
He will ? Are you telling me the truth ? Why , Evelina Bunner ! Oh , I don't care ! cried the younger recklessly , rushing back into the shop . 
Ann Eliza stood burning with the shame of Evelina's self exposure . 
The next evening , Mr. Ramy reappeared , still somewhat sallow and red lidded , but otherwise his usual self . 
Evelina lowered her lids while he read . 
It was a very beautiful evening , and Ann Eliza thought afterward how different life might have been with a companion who read poetry like Mr. Ramy . 
VII During the ensuing weeks Mr. Ramy , though his visits were as frequent as ever , did not seem to regain his usual spirits . 
He complained frequently of headache , but rejected Ann Eliza's tentatively proffered remedies , and seemed to shrink from any prolonged investigation of his symptoms . 
So would I , said Mr. Ramy , knocking the ashes from his pipe . 
I'd like to be setting in an arbour dis very minute . 
Oh , wouldn't it be lovely ? I always think it's real cool here we'd be heaps hotter up where Miss Mellins is , said Ann Eliza . 
Oh , I daresay but we'd be heaps cooler somewhere else , her sister snapped she was not infrequently exasperated by Ann Eliza's furtive attempts to mollify Providence . 
A few days later Mr. Ramy appeared with a suggestion which enchanted Evelina . 
She's got a real garden , you know , Mr. Ramy explained , wid trees and a real summer house to set in and hens and chickens too . 
And it's an elegant sail over on de ferry boat . 
The proposal drew no response from Ann Eliza . 
She was still oppressed by the recollection of her interminable Sunday in the Park but , obedient to Evelina's imperious glance , she finally faltered out an acceptance . 
Really , Mr. Ramy had not deceived them . 
Clumps of dielytra and day lilies bloomed behind the paling , and a crooked elm hung romantically over the gable of the house . 
Mrs. Hochmuller , leading the way into the house , conducted the Bunner sisters the way to her bedroom . 
To Ann Eliza the dinner seemed endless , and the rich fare strangely unappetizing . 
She was abashed by the easy intimacy of her hostess's voice and eye . 
I dunno as I had , he returned evasively . 
Evelina glanced from one to the other . 
Mr. Ramy HAS been sick , she said at length , as though to show that she also was in a position to speak with authority . 
He's complained very frequently of headaches . 
Ho ! I know him , said Mrs. Hochmuller with a laugh , her eyes still on the clock maker . 
When dinner was over Mrs. Hochmuller invited her guests to step out of the kitchen door , and they found themselves in a green enclosure , half garden , half orchard . 
I guess you got to go round by the road , then , said Mrs. Hochmuller . 
My Linda she goes troo a hole in de fence , but I guess you'd tear your dress if you was to dry . 
I'll help you , said Mr. Ramy and guided by Linda the pair walked along the fence till they reached a narrow gap in its boards . 
Through this they disappeared , watched curiously in their descent by the grinning Linda , while Mrs. Hochmuller and Ann Eliza were left alone in the summer house . 
Mrs. Hochmuller looked at her guest with a confidential smile . 
I guess dey'll be gone quite a while , she remarked , jerking her double chin toward the gap in the fence . 
Folks like dat don't never remember about de dime . 
And she drew out her knitting . 
Ann Eliza could think of nothing to say . 
Your sister she thinks a great lot of him , don't she ? her hostess continued . 
Ann Eliza's cheeks grew hot . 
Ain't you a teeny bit lonesome away out here sometimes ? she asked . 
I should think you'd be scared nights , all alone with your daughter . 
Oh , no , I ain't , said Mrs. Hochmuller . 
Oh , said Ann Eliza , shrinking . 
She began to feel a distinct aversion for her hostess , and her eyes turned with involuntary annoyance to the square backed form of Linda , still inquisitively suspended on the fence . 
D'you suppose they'll revive ? she asked , holding up the ferns but Ann Eliza , rising at her approach , said stiffly We'd better be getting home , Evelina . 
At length , however , they found themselves again on the ferry boat . 
Water and sky were grey , with a dividing gleam of sunset that sent sleek opal waves in the boat's wake . 
Ann Eliza sat apart , looking away from the others . 
She had made up her mind that Mr. Ramy had proposed to Evelina in the wood , and she was silently preparing herself to receive her sister's confidence that evening . 
But Evelina was apparently in no mood for confidences . 
It was long since Ann Eliza had seen her in so uncommunicative a mood . 
The following Saturday Ann Eliza was sitting alone in the shop when the door opened and Mr. Ramy entered . 
He had never before called at that hour , and she wondered a little anxiously what had brought him . 
Has anything happened ? she asked , pushing aside the basketful of buttons she had been sorting . 
Not's I know of , said Mr. Ramy tranquilly . 
But I always close up the store at two o'clock Saturdays at this season , so I thought I might as well call round and see you . 
I'm real glad , I'm sure , said Ann Eliza but Evelina's out . 
I know dat , Mr. Ramy answered . 
I met her round de corner . 
She told me she got to go to dat new dyer's up in Forty eighth Street . 
She won't be back for a couple of hours , har'ly , will she ? Ann Eliza looked at him with rising bewilderment . 
I can't leave the store , she explained . 
Well , I guess we're very well here . 
Ann Eliza had become suddenly aware that Mr. Ramy was looking at her with unusual intentness . 
Involuntarily her hand strayed to the thin streaks of hair on her temples , and thence descended to straighten the brooch beneath her collar . 
You're looking very well to day , Miss Bunner , said Mr. Ramy , following her gesture with a smile . 
Oh , said Ann Eliza nervously . 
I'm always well in health , she added . 
I guess you're healthier than your sister , even if you are less sizeable . 
Oh , I don't know . 
Evelina's a mite nervous sometimes , but she ain't a bit sickly . 
She eats heartier than you do but that don't mean nothing , said Mr. Ramy . 
But Mr. Ramy spared her all farther indecision . 
I want to get married . 
It ain't good for a man to live all alone , and eat noding but cold meat every day . 
No , said Ann Eliza softly . 
And the dust fairly beats me . 
Oh , the dust I know ! Mr. Ramy stretched one of his blunt fingered hands toward her . 
I wisht you'd take me . 
Still Ann Eliza did not understand . 
Me me ? she gasped . 
I guess so , said her suitor placidly . 
You suit me right down to the ground , Miss Bunner . 
A woman passing along the street paused to look at the shop window , and Ann Eliza half hoped she would come in but after a desultory inspection she went on . 
Maybe you don't fancy me ? Mr. Ramy suggested , discountenanced by Ann Eliza's silence . 
A word of assent was on her tongue , but her lips refused it . 
She must find some other way of telling him . 
Well , I always kinder thought we was suited to one another , Mr. Ramy continued , eased of his momentary doubt . 
I always liked de quiet style no fuss and airs , and not afraid of work . 
He spoke as though dispassionately cataloguing her charms . 
Ann Eliza felt that she must make an end . 
But , Mr. Ramy , you don't understand . 
I've never thought of marrying . 
Mr. Ramy looked at her in surprise . 
Why not ? Well , I don't know , har'ly . 
She moistened her twitching lips . 
The fact is , I ain't as active as I look . 
Maybe I couldn't stand the care . 
I ain't as spry as Evelina nor as young , she added , with a last great effort . 
But you do most of de work here , anyways , said her suitor doubtfully . 
Oh , well , that's because Evelina's busy outside and where there's only two women the work don't amount to much . 
Besides , I'm the oldest I have to look after things , she hastened on , half pained that her simple ruse should so readily deceive him . 
Well , I guess you're active enough for me , he persisted . 
His calm determination began to frighten her she trembled lest her own should be less staunch . 
No , no , she repeated , feeling the tears on her lashes . 
I couldn't , Mr. Ramy , I couldn't marry . 
I always thought it was Evelina always . 
And so did everybody else . 
She's so bright and pretty it seemed so natural . 
Well , you was all mistaken , said Mr. Ramy obstinately . 
He rose , pushing back his chair . 
You'd better think it over , he said , in the large tone of a man who feels he may safely wait . 
Oh , no , no . 
It ain't any sorter use , Mr. Ramy . 
I don't never mean to marry . 
I get tired so easily I'd be afraid of the work . 
And I have such awful headaches . 
She paused , racking her brain for more convincing infirmities . 
Headaches , do you ? said Mr. Ramy , turning back . 
My , yes , awful ones , that I have to give right up to . 
Evelina has to do everything when I have one of them headaches . 
She has to bring me my tea in the mornings . 
Well , I'm sorry to hear it , said Mr. Ramy . 
Thank you kindly all the same , Ann Eliza murmured . 
And please don't don't She stopped suddenly , looking at him through her tears . 
Oh , that's all right , he answered . 
Don't you fret , Miss Gunner . 
Folks have got to suit themselves . 
She thought his tone had grown more resigned since she had spoken of her headaches . 
I don't want this should make any difference between us . 
Oh , my , no , said Mr. Ramy , absently picking up his hat . 
You'll come in just the same ? she continued , nerving herself to the effort . 
We'd miss you awfully if you didn't . 
Evelina , she She paused , torn between her desire to turn his thoughts to Evelina , and the dread of prematurely disclosing her sister's secret . 
Don't Miss Evelina have no headaches ? Mr. Ramy suddenly asked . 
My , no , never well , not to speak of , anyway . 
She ain't had one for ages , and when Evelina IS sick she won't never give in to it , Ann Eliza declared , making some hurried adjustments with her conscience . 
I wouldn't have thought that , said Mr. Ramy . 
I guess you don't know us as well as you thought you did . 
Well , no , that's so maybe I don't . 
I'll wish you good day , Miss Bunner and Mr. Ramy moved toward the door . 
Good day , Mr. Ramy , Ann Eliza answered . 
She felt unutterably thankful to be alone . 
She knew the crucial moment of her life had passed , and she was glad that she had not fallen below her own ideals . 
It had been a wonderful experience and in spite of the tears on her cheeks she was not sorry to have known it . 
Two facts , however , took the edge from its perfection that it had happened in the shop , and that she had not had on her black silk . 
She passed the next hour in a state of dreamy ecstasy . 
At length a dread of Evelina's return began to mingle with these musings . 
But her fears were superfluous . 
She was glad of this yet there was a touch of humiliation in finding that the portentous secret in her bosom did not visibly shine forth . 
It struck her as dull , and even slightly absurd , of Evelina not to know at last that they were equals . 
Outwardly he made no sign . 
He lit his pipe as placidly as ever and seemed to relapse without effort into the unruffled intimacy of old . 
Yet to Ann Eliza's initiated eye a change became gradually perceptible . 
Once he asked her abruptly if she should like to travel , and Ann Eliza saw that the flush on Evelina's cheek was reflected from the same fire which had scorched her own . 
So they drifted on through the sultry weeks of July . 
Ann Eliza saw the light in Evelina's eye and her resolve was instantly taken . 
I guess I won't go , thank you kindly but I'm sure my sister will be happy to . 
She was pained by the perfunctory phrase with which Evelina urged her to accompany them and still more by Mr. Ramy's silence . 
No , I guess I won't go , she repeated , rather in answer to herself than to them . 
It's dreadfully hot and I've got a kinder headache . 
Oh , well , I wouldn't then , said her sister hurriedly . 
You'd better jest set here quietly and rest . 
A summary of Part I of Bunner Sisters appears on page of the advertising pages . 
Yes , I'll rest , Ann Eliza assented . 
At two o'clock Mr. Ramy returned , and a moment later he and Evelina left the shop . 
Evelina had made herself another new bonnet for the occasion , a bonnet , Ann Eliza thought , almost too youthful in shape and colour . 
It was the first time it had ever occurred to her to criticize Evelina's taste , and she was frightened at the insidious change in her attitude toward her sister . 
No purchasers came not a hand fell on the door latch and the tick of the clock in the back room ironically emphasized the passing of the empty hours . 
Evelina returned late and alone . 
Ann Eliza felt the coming crisis in the sound of her footstep , which wavered along as if not knowing on what it trod . 
What are you so busy about ? she said impatiently , as Ann Eliza , beneath the gas jet , fumbled for the matches . 
Ain't you even got time to ask me if I'd had a pleasant day ? Ann Eliza turned with a quiet smile . 
I guess I don't have to . 
Seems to me it's pretty plain you have . 
Well , I don't know . 
I don't know HOW I feel it's all so queer . 
I almost think I'd like to scream . 
But it all happened so suddenly , and the boat was so crowded I thought everybody'd hear what he was saying . 
Ann Eliza , she broke out , why on earth don't you ask me what I'm talking about ? Ann Eliza , with a last effort of heroism , feigned a fond incomprehension . 
I thought he'd never get up his courage . 
He said he was so 'fraid I'd say no that's what kep' him so long from asking me . 
Well , I ain't said yes YET leastways I told him I'd have to think it over but I guess he knows . 
Oh , Ann Eliza , I'm so happy ! She hid the blinding brightness of her face . 
Ann Eliza , just then , would only let herself feel that she was glad . 
She drew down Evelina's hands and kissed her , and they held each other . 
When Evelina regained her voice she had a tale to tell which carried their vigil far into the night . 
The next few days were taken up with the embarrassed adjustment of their new relation to Mr. Ramy and to each other . 
Mr. Ramy came daily now . 
Every evening he and his betrothed went out for a stroll around the Square , and when Evelina came in her cheeks were always pink . 
He's kissed her under that tree at the corner , away from the lamp post , Ann Eliza said to herself , with sudden insight into unconjectured things . 
Evelina glanced at her compassionately . 
I guess if you was me you'd want to do everything you could to please the man you loved . 
It's lucky , she added with glacial irony , that I'm not too grand for Herman's friends . 
Oh , Ann Eliza protested , that ain't what I mean and you know it ain't . 
Only somehow the day we saw her I didn't think she seemed like the kinder person you'd want for a friend . 
I guess a married woman's the best judge of such matters , Evelina replied , as though she already walked in the light of her future state . 
Ann Eliza , after that , kept her own counsel . 
She saw that Evelina wanted her sympathy as little as her admonitions , and that already she counted for nothing in her sister's scheme of life . 
To Ann Eliza's idolatrous acceptance of the cruelties of fate this exclusion seemed both natural and just but it caused her the most lively pain . 
She could not divest her love for Evelina of its passionate motherliness no breath of reason could lower it to the cool temperature of sisterly affection . 
She was then passing , as she thought , through the novitiate of her pain preparing , in a hundred experimental ways , for the solitude awaiting her when Evelina left . 
It was true that it would be a tempered loneliness . 
They would not be far apart . 
Evelina would run in daily from the clock maker's they would doubtless take supper with her on Sundays . 
But on that contingency she would not dwell . 
They can come to me when they want to they'll always find me here , she simply said to herself . 
One evening Evelina came in flushed and agitated from her stroll around the Square . 
Ann Eliza saw at once that something had happened but the new habit of reticence checked her question . 
She had not long to wait . 
Oh , Ann Eliza , on'y to think what he says . 
I declare I'm so upset I thought the people in the Square would notice me . 
Don't I look queer ? He wants to get married right off this very next week . 
So's we can move out to St . 
Him and you move out to St . 
Louis ? Well , I don't know as it would be natural for him to want to go out there without me , Evelina simpered . 
But it's all so sudden I don't know what to think . 
He only got the letter this morning . 
DO I look queer , Ann Eliza ? Her eye was roving for the mirror . 
No , you don't , said Ann Eliza almost harshly . 
Well , it's a mercy , Evelina pursued with a tinge of disappointment . 
It's a regular miracle I didn't faint right out there in the Square . 
Herman's so thoughtless he just put the letter into my hand without a word . 
It's from a big firm out there the Tiff'ny of St . 
Louis , he says it is offering him a place in their clock department . 
Seems they heart of him through a German friend of his that's settled out there . 
It's a splendid opening , and if he gives satisfaction they'll raise him at the end of the year . 
She paused , flushed with the importance of the situation , which seemed to lift her once for all above the dull level of her former life . 
Then you'll have to go ? came at last from Ann Eliza . 
You wouldn't have me interfere with his prospects , would you ? No no . 
I on'y meant has it got to be so soon ? Right away , I tell you next week . 
Ain't it awful ? blushed the bride . 
Well , this was what happened to mothers . 
They bore it , Ann Eliza mused so why not she ? Ah , but they had their own chance first she had had no chance at all . 
At that moment even the thought of Evelina's happiness refused her its consolatory ray or its light , if she saw it , was too remote to warm her . 
The trivial obligations of the moment came to her aid . 
Nursed in idleness her grief would have mastered her but the needs of the shop and the back room , and the preparations for Evelina's marriage , kept the tyrant under . 
Ann Eliza had already had occasion to notice that it was a bad sign when Mr. Ramy left his affianced at the door . 
It generally meant that Evelina had something disturbing to communicate , and Ann Eliza's first glance told her that this time the news was grave . 
Miss Mellins , who sat with her back to the door and her head bent over her sewing , started as Evelina came around to the opposite side of the table . 
Mercy , Miss Evelina ! I declare I thought you was a ghost , the way you crep' in . 
I didn't mean to startle you , said Evelina . 
She sat down on the nearest chair , and as the lamp light fell on her face Ann Eliza saw that she had been crying . 
You do look dead beat , Miss Mellins resumed , after a pause of soul probing scrutiny . 
I guess Mr. Ramy lugs you round that Square too often . 
You'll walk your legs off if you ain't careful . 
Men don't never consider they're all alike . 
Why , I had a cousin once that was engaged to a book agent Maybe we'd better put away the work for to night , Miss Mellins , Ann Eliza interposed . 
I guess what Evelina wants is a good night's rest . 
That's so , assented the dress maker . 
Have you got the back breadths run together , Miss Bunner ? Here's the sleeves . 
She drew a cluster of pins from her mouth , in which she seemed to secrete them as squirrels stow away nuts . 
There , she said , rolling up her work , you go right away to bed , Miss Evelina , and we'll set up a little later to morrow night . 
I guess you're a mite nervous , ain't you ? I know when my turn comes I'll be scared to death . 
With this arch forecast she withdrew , and Ann Eliza , returning to the back room , found Evelina still listlessly seated by the table . 
The folds slipped from Ann Eliza's hands . 
Evelina Bunner what you mean ? Jest what I say . 
Put off what's put off ? Our getting married . 
He can't take me to St . 
He ain't got money enough . 
She brought the words out in the monotonous tone of a child reciting a lesson . 
Ann Eliza picked up another breadth of cashmere and began to smooth it out . 
I don't understand , she said at length . 
Well , it's plain enough . 
The journey's fearfully expensive , and we've got to have something left to start with when we get out there . 
We've counted up , and he ain't got the money to do it that's all . 
But I thought he was going right into a splendid place . 
So he is but the salary's pretty low the first year , and board's very high in St . 
He's jest got another letter from his German friend , and he's been figuring it out , and he's afraid to chance it . 
He'll have to go alone . 
But there's your money have you forgotten that ? The hundred dollars in the bank . 
Evelina made an impatient movement . 
Of course I ain't forgotten it . 
It would all have to go into buying furniture , and if he was took sick and lost his place again we wouldn't have a cent left . 
He says he's got to lay by another hundred dollars before he'll be willing to take me out there . 
For a while Ann Eliza pondered this surprising statement then she ventured Seems to me he might have thought of it before . 
In an instant Evelina was aflame . 
I guess he knows what's right as well as you or me . 
I'd sooner die than be a burden to him . 
Ann Eliza made no answer . 
The clutch of an unformulated doubt had checked the words on her lips . 
She had meant , on the day of her sister's marriage , to give Evelina the other half of their common savings but something warned her not to say so now . 
The sisters undressed without farther words . 
Never had she felt so coldly remote from Evelina . 
The hours of the night moved slowly , ticked off with wearisome insistence by the clock which had played so prominent a part in their lives . 
Evelina's sobs still stirred the bed at gradually lengthening intervals , till at length Ann Eliza thought she slept . 
But with the dawn the eyes of the sisters met , and Ann Eliza's courage failed her as she looked in Evelina's face . 
She sat up in bed and put out a pleading hand . 
Don't cry so , dearie . 
Oh , I can't bear it , I can't bear it , Evelina moaned . 
Ann Eliza stroked her quivering shoulder . 
Don't , don't , she repeated . 
If you take the other hundred , won't that be enough ? I always meant to give it to you . 
On'y I didn't want to tell you till your wedding day . 
IX Evelina's marriage took place on the appointed day . 
On the table a vase of white chrysanthemums stood between a dish of oranges and bananas and an iced wedding cake wreathed with orange blossoms of the bride's own making . 
Mrs. Hochmuller's large blonde personality seemed to pervade the room to the effacement of the less amply proportioned guests . 
The Hochmullers , in fact , struck the dominant note in the entertainment . 
The next morning Mr. Ramy and his wife started for St . 
Louis , and Ann Eliza was left alone . 
Ann Eliza was but a small person to harbour so great a guest , and a trembling sense of insufficiency possessed her . 
She had no high musings to offer to the new companion of her hearth . 
Every one of her thoughts had hitherto turned to Evelina and shaped itself in homely easy words of the mighty speech of silence she knew not the earliest syllable . 
Everything in the back room and the shop , on the second day after Evelina's going , seemed to have grown coldly unfamiliar . 
The whole aspect of the place had changed with the changed conditions of Ann Eliza's life . 
In the new silence surrounding her the walls and furniture found voice , frightening her at dusk and midnight with strange sighs and stealthy whispers . 
Miss Mellins , coming in on one of these sad repasts , suggested the acquisition of a cat but Ann Eliza shook her head . 
She had never been used to animals , and she felt the vague shrinking of the pious from creatures divided from her by the abyss of soullessness . 
At length , after ten empty days , Evelina's first letter came . 
Now she could not but wish that Evelina had laid aside her swelling periods for a style more suited to the chronicling of homely incidents . 
During the early winter she received two or three more letters of the same kind , each enclosing in its loose husk of rhetoric a smaller kernel of fact . 
and found his position less satisfactory than he had been led to expect . 
Toward February the letters fell off and finally they ceased to come . 
But surely if Evelina were ill Mr. Ramy would have written . 
He wrote a small neat hand , and epistolary communication was not an insuperable embarrassment to him . 
At last there floated up from some depth of troubled memory the name of the firm of St . 
Louis jewellers by whom Mr. Ramy was employed . 
After much hesitation , and considerable effort , she addressed to them a timid request for news of her brother in law and sooner than she could have hoped the answer reached her . 
DEAR MADAM , In reply to yours of the th ult . 
we beg to state the party you refer to was discharged from our employ a month ago . 
We are sorry we are unable to furnish you wish his address . 
Yours Respectfully , LUDWIG AND HAMMERBUSCH . 
Ann Eliza read and re read the curt statement in a stupor of distress . 
She had lost her last trace of Evelina . 
All that night she lay awake , revolving the stupendous project of going to St . 
Her wedding gift to Evelina had left her without any resources beyond her daily earnings , and these had steadily dwindled as the winter passed . 
In spite of her dogged efforts to maintain the prosperity of the little shop , her sister's absence had already told on its business . 
Now that Ann Eliza had to carry the bundles to the dyer's herself , the customers who called in her absence , finding the shop locked , too often went elsewhere . 
Perhaps the lady with puffed sleeves would be able to get her a little plain sewing to do or she might recommend the shop to friends . 
She came in to buy some spools of black thread and silk , and in the doorway she turned back to say I am going away to morrow for a long time . 
I hope you will have a pleasant winter . 
And the door shut on her . 
One day not long after this it occurred to Ann Eliza to go to Hoboken in quest of Mrs. Hochmuller . 
But she must have news of Evelina , and no obstacle was great enough to thwart her . 
Though she longed to turn to some one for advice she disliked to expose her situation to Miss Mellins's searching eye , and at first she could think of no other confidant . 
My , my , she simply said as Ann Eliza ended . 
Keep still now , Arthur Miss Bunner don't want you to jump up and down on her foot to day . 
I'll send him right round the minute he comes in , and you can tell him the whole story . 
I wouldn't wonder but what he can find that Mrs. Hochmuller's address in the d'rectory . 
I know they've got one where he works . 
I'd be real thankful if he could , Ann Eliza murmured , rising from her seat with the factitious sense of lightness that comes from imparting a long hidden dread . 
X Mr. Hawkins proved himself worthy of his wife's faith in his capacity . 
had written in a large round hand the names of the streets that led there from the ferry . 
Ann Eliza lay awake all that night , repeating over and over again the directions Mr. Hawkins had given her . 
The next Sunday , accordingly , she set out early , and without much trouble found her way to the ferry . 
Nearly a year had passed since her previous visit to Mrs. Hochmuller , and a chilly April breeze smote her face as she stepped on the boat . 
Most of the passengers were huddled together in the cabin , and Ann Eliza shrank into its obscurest corner , shivering under the thin black mantle which had seemed so hot in July . 
When the car reached the end of its journey she got out and stood for some time trying to remember which turn Mr. Ramy had taken . 
One or two surly looking men slouched past with inquisitive glances , and she could not make up her mind to stop and speak to them . 
At length a tow headed boy came out of a swinging door suggestive of illicit conviviality , and to him Ann Eliza ventured to confide her difficulty . 
Another turn in the road brought them to the little red house , and having rewarded her guide Ann Eliza unlatched the gate and walked up to the door . 
As her agitation subsided she began to notice how much the appearance of the house had changed . 
It was not only that winter had stripped the elm , and blackened the flower borders the house itself had a debased and deserted air . 
The window panes were cracked and dirty , and one or two shutters swung dismally on loosened hinges . 
She rang several times before the door was opened . 
At the mention of the name the woman stared . 
Mrs. who , did ye say ? Mrs. Hochmuller . 
This is surely her house ? No , it ain't neither , said the woman turning away . 
Oh , but wait , please , Ann Eliza entreated . 
I mean the Mrs. Hochmuller who takes in washing . 
I came out to see her last June . 
Oh , the Dutch washerwoman is it her that used to live here ? She's been gone two months and more . 
It's Mike McNulty lives here now . 
Whisht ! to the baby , who had squared his mouth for a howl . 
Ann Eliza's knees grew weak . 
Mrs. Hochmuller gone ? But where has she gone ? She must be somewhere round here . 
Can't you tell me ? Sure an' I can't , said the woman . 
She wint away before iver we come . 
Dalia Geoghegan , will ye bring the choild in out av the cowld ? cried an irate voice from within . 
Please wait oh , please wait , Ann Eliza insisted . 
You see I must find Mrs. Hochmuller . 
Why don't ye go and look for her thin ? the woman returned , slamming the door in her face . 
She was roused by an icy wind that seemed to spring up suddenly from the desolate scene , piercing her thin dress like gauze and turning away she began to retrace her steps . 
When she reached the horse car terminus a car was just moving off toward Hoboken , and for nearly an hour she had to wait on the corner in the bitter wind . 
The next morning Mrs. Hawkins , dropping in to hear the result of the trip , found Ann Eliza sitting behind the counter wrapped in an old shawl . 
Why , Miss Bunner , you're sick ! You must have fever your face is just as red ! It's nothing . 
I guess I caught cold yesterday on the ferry boat , Ann Eliza acknowledged . 
And it's jest like a vault in here ! Mrs. Hawkins rebuked her . 
Let me feel your hand it's burning . 
Now , Miss Bunner , you've got to go right to bed this very minute . 
Oh , but I can't , Mrs. Hawkins . 
Ann Eliza attempted a wan smile . 
You forget there ain't nobody but me to tend the store . 
I guess you won't tend it long neither , if you ain't careful , Mrs. Hawkins grimly rejoined . 
Beneath her placid exterior she cherished a morbid passion for disease and death , and the sight of Ann Eliza's suffering had roused her from her habitual indifference . 
Ann Eliza , having so far abdicated her independence , sank into sudden apathy . 
The tears rolled down her cheeks . 
She warn't there ? Has she moved ? Over two months ago and they don't know where she's gone . 
Oh what'll I do , Mrs. Hawkins ? There , there , Miss Bunner . 
You lay still and don't fret . 
I'll ask Mr. Hawkins soon as ever he comes home . 
Ann Eliza murmured her gratitude , and Mrs. Hawkins , bending down , kissed her on the forehead . 
Don't you fret , she repeated , in the voice with which she soothed her children . 
Every morning , when her friends appeared , Ann Eliza lifted her head to ask Is there a letter ? and at their gentle negative sank back in silence . 
Good evening , Miss Bunner , said Mr. Hawkins in his dragging voice . 
I've been over to Hoboken all day looking round for Mrs. Hochmuller . 
Oh , Mr. Hawkins you HAVE ? I made a thorough search , but I'm sorry to say it was no use . 
She's left Hoboken moved clear away , and nobody seems to know where . 
It was real good of you , Mr. Hawkins . 
Ann Eliza's voice struggled up in a faint whisper through the submerging tide of her disappointment . 
Mr. Hawkins , in his embarrassed sense of being the bringer of bad news , stood before her uncertainly then he turned to go . 
No trouble at all , he paused to assure her from the doorway . 
She wanted to speak again , to detain him , to ask him to advise her but the words caught in her throat and she lay back silent . 
The next day she got up early , and dressed and bonneted herself with twitching fingers . 
She waited till the weak eyed child appeared , and having laid on her minute instructions as to the care of the shop , she slipped out into the street . 
It had occurred to her in one of the weary watches of the previous night that she might go to Tiffany's and make enquiries about Ramy's past . 
Possibly in that way she might obtain some information that would suggest a new way of reaching Evelina . 
The gentleman considered her thoughtfully . 
I don't want to buy a clock at all . 
I want to see the head of the department . 
Mr. Loomis ? His stare still weighed her then he seemed to brush aside the problem she presented as beneath his notice . 
Take the elevator to the second floor . 
Next aisle to the left . 
He waved her down the endless perspective of show cases . 
Ann Eliza followed the line of his lordly gesture , and a swift ascent brought her to a great hall full of the buzzing and booming of thousands of clocks . 
One of them soon approached , and Ann Eliza repeated her request . 
Mr. Loomis ? Go right down to the office at the other end . 
He pointed to a kind of box of ground glass and highly polished panelling . 
As she thanked him he turned to one of his companions and said something in which she caught the name of Mr. Loomis , and which was received with an appreciative chuckle . 
She suspected herself of being the object of the pleasantry , and straightened her thin shoulders under her mantle . 
The door of the office stood open , and within sat a gray bearded man at a desk . 
He looked up kindly , and again she asked for Mr. Loomis . 
I hope you'll excuse my troubling you , sir . 
I came to ask if you could tell me anything about Mr. Herman Ramy . 
He was employed here in the clock department two or three years ago . 
Mr. Loomis showed no recognition of the name . 
Ramy ? When was he discharged ? I don't har'ly know . 
He was very sick , and when he got well his place had been filled . 
He married my sister last October and they went to St . 
Louis , I ain't had any news of them for over two months , and she's my only sister , and I'm most crazy worrying about her . 
In what capacity was Ramy employed here ? he asked after a moment . 
He he told us that he was one of the heads of the clock department , Ann Eliza stammered , overswept by a sudden doubt . 
That was probably a slight exaggeration . 
But I can tell you about him by referring to our books . 
The name again ? Ramy Herman Ramy . 
There ensued a long silence , broken only by the flutter of leaves as Mr. Loomis turned over his ledgers . 
Presently he looked up , keeping his finger between the pages . 
Here it is Herman Ramy . 
He was one of our ordinary workmen , and left us three years and a half ago last June . 
On account of sickness ? Ann Eliza faltered . 
Mr. Loomis appeared to hesitate then he said I see no mention of sickness . 
Ann Eliza felt his compassionate eyes on her again . 
Perhaps I'd better tell you the truth . 
He was discharged for drug taking . 
A capable workman , but we couldn't keep him straight . 
I'm sorry to have to tell you this , but it seems fairer , since you say you're anxious about your sister . 
The polished sides of the office vanished from Ann Eliza's sight , and the cackle of the innumerable clocks came to her like the yell of waves in a storm . 
She tried to speak but could not tried to get to her feet , but the floor was gone . 
I'm very sorry , Mr. Loomis repeated , closing the ledger . 
I remember the man perfectly now . 
He used to disappear every now and then , and turn up again in a state that made him useless for days . 
As she listened , Ann Eliza recalled the day when she had come on Mr. Ramy sitting in abject dejection behind his counter . 
I'm sorry to have troubled you . 
You say Ramy married your sister last October ? Yes , sir and they went to St . 
I don't know how to find her . 
I thought maybe somebody here might know about him . 
Well , possibly some of the workmen might . 
Leave me your name and I'll send you word if I get on his track . 
He handed her a pencil , and she wrote down her address then she walked away blindly between the clocks . 
After the arrival of Mr. Loomis's note the weeks followed each other uneventfully . 
This eased her of anxiety for the immediate future but she had to rouse herself to feel any sense of relief . 
Her personal welfare was what least concerned her . 
Since she had lost her last hope of tracing her sister , all the activities of her lonely imagination had been concentrated on the possibility of Evelina's coming back to her . 
The discovery of Ramy's secret filled her with dreadful fears . 
In the solitude of the shop and the back room she was tortured by vague pictures of Evelina's sufferings . 
What horrors might not be hidden beneath her silence ? Ann Eliza's great dread was that Miss Mellins should worm out of her what she had learned from Mr. Loomis . 
She was sure Miss Mellins must have abominable things to tell about drug fiends things she did not have the strength to hear . 
Drug fiend the very word was Satanic she could hear Miss Mellins roll it on her tongue . 
But Ann Eliza's own imagination , left to itself , had begun to people the long hours with evil visions . 
Sometimes , in the night , she thought she heard herself called the voice was her sister's , but faint with a nameless terror . 
Her most peaceful moments were those in which she managed to convince herself that Evelina was dead . 
So the summer wore on . 
Ann Eliza was conscious that Mrs. Hawkins and Miss Mellins were watching her with affectionate anxiety , but the knowledge brought no comfort . 
She no longer cared what they felt or thought about her . 
Her grief lay far beyond touch of human healing , and after a while she became aware that they knew they could not help her . 
The autumn came , and the winter . 
Business had fallen off again , and but few purchasers came to the little shop in the basement . 
In spite of the flowers which lent such a premature brightness to the streets the month was fierce and stormy , and Ann Eliza could get no warmth into her bones . 
Nevertheless , she was insensibly beginning to take up the healing routine of life . 
The lady still wore mourning , but she was evidently lightening it , and Ann Eliza saw in this the hope of future orders . 
The lady had left the shop about an hour before , walking away with her graceful step toward Fifth Avenue . 
From this consideration her mind wandered to the cut of the lady's new sleeves , and she was vexed with herself for not having noted it more carefully . 
She felt Miss Mellins might have liked to know about it . 
Ann Eliza's powers of observation had never been as keen as Evelina's , when the latter was not too self absorbed to exert them . 
It was not unlikely that she might pass that way , for she certainly lived in or about the Square . 
Suddenly Ann Eliza remarked a small neat handkerchief on the counter it must have dropped from the lady's purse , and she would probably come back to get it . 
Ann Eliza , pleased at the idea , sat on behind the counter and watched the darkening street . 
At length through the deepening dusk she distinguished a slim dark figure coming down the steps to the shop . 
With a little warmth of pleasure about her heart she reached up to light the gas . 
I do believe I'll ask her name this time , she thought . 
She raised the flame to its full height , and saw her sister standing in the door . 
The glare of the gas beat full on her as she stood and looked at Ann Eliza . 
Sister oh , Evelina ! I knowed you'd come ! Ann Eliza had caught her close with a long moan of triumph . 
Vague words poured from her as she laid her cheek against Evelina's trivial inarticulate endearments caught from Mrs. Hawkins's long discourses to her baby . 
For a while Evelina let herself be passively held then she drew back from her sister's clasp and looked about the shop . 
Ain't there any fire ? she asked . 
Of course there is ! Ann Eliza , holding her hand fast , drew her into the back room . 
She did not want to ask any questions yet she simply wanted to feel the emptiness of the room brimmed full again by the one presence that was warmth and light to her . 
There that'll blaze up in a minute , she said . 
She pressed Evelina down on the faded cushions of the rocking chair , and , kneeling beside her , began to rub her hands . 
You're stone cold , ain't you ? Just sit still and warm yourself while I run and get the kettle . 
I've got something you always used to fancy for supper . 
She laid her hand on Evelina's shoulder . 
Don't talk oh , don't talk yet ! she implored . 
She wanted to keep that one frail second of happiness between herself and what she knew must come . 
Evelina , without a word , bent over the fire , stretching her thin hands to the blaze and watching Ann Eliza fill the kettle and set the supper table . 
Her gaze had the dreamy fixity of a half awakened child's . 
Ann Eliza , with a smile of triumph , brought a slice of custard pie from the cupboard and put it by her sister's plate . 
You do like that , don't you ? Miss Mellins sent it down to me this morning . 
She had her aunt from Brooklyn to dinner . 
Ain't it funny it just so happened ? I ain't hungry , said Evelina , rising to approach the table . 
She sat down in her usual place , looked about her with the same wondering stare , and then , as of old , poured herself out the first cup of tea . 
Where's the what not gone to ? she suddenly asked . 
Ann Eliza set down the teapot and rose to get a spoon from the cupboard . 
Evelina's eyes were still travelling about the familiar room . 
Though it was against all the traditions of the Bunner family to sell any household possession , she showed no surprise at her sister's answer . 
And the clock ? The clock's gone too . 
Oh , I gave that away I gave it to Mrs. Hawkins . 
She's kep' awake so nights with that last baby . 
I wish you'd never bought it , said Evelina harshly . 
Ann Eliza's heart grew faint with fear . 
Without answering , she crossed over to her sister's seat and poured her out a second cup of tea . 
Then another thought struck her , and she went back to the cupboard and took out the cordial . 
In Evelina's absence considerable draughts had been drawn from it by invalid neighbours but a glassful of the precious liquid still remained . 
Here , drink this right off it'll warm you up quicker than anything , Ann Eliza said . 
Evelina obeyed , and a slight spark of colour came into her cheeks . 
She turned to the custard pie and began to eat with a silent voracity distressing to watch . 
She did not even look to see what was left for Ann Eliza . 
I ain't hungry , she said at last as she laid down her fork . 
I'm only so dead tired that's the trouble . 
then you'd better get right into bed . 
Here's my old plaid dressing gown you remember it , don't you ? Ann Eliza laughed , recalling Evelina's ironies on the subject of the antiquated garment . 
With trembling fingers she began to undo her sister's cloak . 
The dress beneath it told a tale of poverty that Ann Eliza dared not pause to note . 
She drew it gently off , and as it slipped from Evelina's shoulders it revealed a tiny black bag hanging on a ribbon about her neck . 
Evelina lifted her hand as though to screen the bag from Ann Eliza and the elder sister , seeing the gesture , continued her task with lowered eyes . 
Where's the old red comfortable ? Evelina asked , as she sank down on the pillow . 
The comfortable ? Oh , it was so hot and heavy I never used it after you went so I sold that too . 
I never could sleep under much clothes . 
She became aware that her sister was looking at her more attentively . 
I guess you've been in trouble too , Evelina said . 
Me ? In trouble ? What do you mean , Evelina ? You've had to pawn the things , I suppose , Evelina continued in a weary unmoved tone . 
Well , I've been through worse than that . 
I've been to hell and back . 
Oh , Evelina don't say it , sister ! Ann Eliza implored , shrinking from the unholy word . 
She knelt down and began to rub her sister's feet beneath the bedclothes . 
I've been to hell and back if I AM back , Evelina repeated . 
She lifted her head from the pillow and began to talk with a sudden feverish volubility . 
It began right away , less than a month after we were married . 
I've been in hell all that time , Ann Eliza . 
She fixed her eyes with passionate intentness on Ann Eliza's face . 
I didn't find it out till long afterward at first , when he acted so strange , I thought he drank . 
But it was worse , much worse than drinking . 
Oh , sister , don't say it don't say it yet ! It's so sweet just to have you here with me again . 
I must say it , Evelina insisted , her flushed face burning with a kind of bitter cruelty . 
You don't know what life's like you don't know anything about it setting here safe all the while in this peaceful place . 
Oh , Evelina why didn't you write and send for me if it was like that ? That's why I couldn't write . 
My death ? That don't frighten me ! You don't know what I've been through . 
And sitting upright in the old mahogany bed , with flushed cheeks and chattering teeth , and Ann Eliza's trembling arm clasping the shawl about her neck , Evelina poured out her story . 
It was a tale of misery and humiliation so remote from the elder sister's innocent experiences that much of it was hardly intelligible to her . 
Evelina , unconscious of any distress but her own , sat upright , shivering in Ann Eliza's hold , while she piled up , detail by detail , her dreary narrative . 
The minute we got out there , and he found the job wasn't as good as he expected , he changed . 
At first I thought he was sick I used to try to keep him home and nurse him . 
Then I saw it was something different . 
He used to go off for hours at a time , and when he came back his eyes kinder had a fog over them . 
Sometimes he didn't har'ly know me , and when he did he seemed to hate me . 
Once he hit me here . 
Well , that was the trouble he'd been at it then . 
But nothing like as bad . 
After we'd been out there about a month he disappeared for a whole week . 
We spent all our money and had to move to a cheaper place . 
Then he got something to do , but they hardly paid him anything , and he didn't stay there long . 
When he found out about the baby The baby ? Ann Eliza faltered . 
It's dead it only lived a day . 
When he found out about it , he got mad , and said he hadn't any money to pay doctors' bills , and I'd better write to you to help us . 
He had an idea you had money hidden away that I didn't know about . 
She turned to her sister with remorseful eyes . 
It was him that made me get that hundred dollars out of you . 
I always meant it for you anyhow . 
Yes , but I wouldn't have taken it if he hadn't been at me the whole time . 
He used to make me do just what he wanted . 
Well , when I said I wouldn't write to you for more money he said I'd better try and earn some myself . 
That was when he struck me . 
Oh , you don't know what I'm talking about yet ! . 
I tried to get work at a milliner's , but I was so sick I couldn't stay . 
I was sick all the time . 
I wisht I'd ha' died , Ann Eliza . 
No , no , Evelina . 
It kept getting worse and worse . 
We pawned the furniture , and they turned us out because we couldn't pay the rent and so then we went to board with Mrs. Hochmuller . 
Ann Eliza pressed her closer to dissemble her own tremor . 
Mrs. Hochmuller ? Didn't you know she was out there ? She moved out a month after we did . 
A hospital ? Sister sister ! It was better than being with him and the doctors were real kind to me . 
After the baby was born I was very sick and had to stay there a good while . 
And one day when I was laying there Mrs. Hochmuller came in as white as a sheet , and told me him and Linda had gone off together and taken all her money . 
That's the last I ever saw of him . 
She broke off with a laugh and began to cough again . 
Ann Eliza tried to persuade her to lie down and sleep , but the rest of her story had to be told before she could be soothed into consent . 
After the news of Ramy's flight she had had brain fever , and had been sent to another hospital where she stayed a long time how long she couldn't remember . 
Dates and days meant nothing to her in the shapeless ruin of her life . 
When she left the hospital she found that Mrs. Hochmuller had gone too . 
She was penniless , and had no one to turn to . 
A lady visitor at the hospital was kind , and found her a place where she did housework but she was so weak they couldn't keep her . 
So he did and he bought the ticket , and put me in the cars . 
Evelina sank back , her face a sallow wedge in the white cleft of the pillow . 
Ann Eliza leaned over her , and for a long time they held each other without speaking . 
They were still clasped in this dumb embrace when there was a step in the shop and Ann Eliza , starting up , saw Miss Mellins in the doorway . 
My sister Evelina has come back come back on a visit . 
she was taken sick in the cars on the way home I guess she caught cold so I made her go right to bed as soon as ever she got here . 
Ann Eliza was surprised at the strength and steadiness of her voice . 
XII What measure of belief her explanation of Evelina's return obtained in the small circle of her friends Ann Eliza did not pause to enquire . 
But other and more serious burdens lay on her startled conscience . 
For the first time in her life she dimly faced the awful problem of the inutility of self sacrifice . 
Hitherto she had never thought of questioning the inherited principles which had guided her life . 
Self effacement for the good of others had always seemed to her both natural and necessary but then she had taken it for granted that it implied the securing of that good . 
Now she perceived that to refuse the gifts of life does not ensure their transmission to those for whom they have been surrendered and her familiar heaven was unpeopled . 
She felt she could no longer trust in the goodness of God , and there was only a black abyss above the roof of Bunner Sisters . 
But there was little time to brood upon such problems . 
The care of Evelina filled Ann Eliza's days and nights . 
The hastily summoned doctor had pronounced her to be suffering from pneumonia , and under his care the first stress of the disease was relieved . 
At length one evening , about six weeks after her return , she said to her sister I don't feel's if I'd ever get up again . 
Ann Eliza turned from the kettle she was placing on the stove . 
She was startled by the echo the words woke in her own breast . 
Don't you talk like that , Evelina ! I guess you're on'y tired out and disheartened . 
Yes , I'm disheartened , Evelina murmured . 
A few months earlier Ann Eliza would have met the confession with a word of pious admonition now she accepted it in silence . 
Maybe you'll brighten up when your cough gets better , she suggested . 
Yes or my cough'll get better when I brighten up , Evelina retorted with a touch of her old tartness . 
Does your cough keep on hurting you jest as much ? I don't see's there's much difference . 
It ain't any use sending for the doctor and who's going to pay him ? I am , answered the elder sister . 
Here's your tea , and a mite of toast . 
The transaction had cost her one of the bitterest struggles of her life . 
When the doctor came she left him alone with Evelina , busying herself in the shop that she might have an opportunity of seeing him alone on his way out . 
She saw at once that his look was grave . 
He sat down on the chair beside the counter , and her mind travelled miles before he spoke . 
Miss Bunner , the best thing you can do is to let me get a bed for your sister at St . 
The hospital ? Come now , you're above that sort of prejudice , aren't you ? The doctor spoke in the tone of one who coaxes a spoiled child . 
I know how devoted you are but Mrs. Ramy can be much better cared for there than here . 
You really haven't time to look after her and attend to your business as well . 
There'll be no expense , you understand Ann Eliza made no answer . 
You think my sister's going to be sick a good while , then ? she asked . 
You think she's very sick ? Well , yes . 
His face had grown still graver he sat there as though he had never known what it was to hurry . 
Ann Eliza continued to separate the pearl and horn buttons . 
Suddenly she lifted her eyes and looked at him . 
Is she going to die ? The doctor laid a kindly hand on hers . 
We never say that , Miss Bunner . 
Human skill works wonders and at the hospital Mrs. Ramy would have every chance . 
What is it ? What's she dying of ? The doctor hesitated , seeking to substitute a popular phrase for the scientific terminology which rose to his lips . 
I want to know , Ann Eliza persisted . 
Yes , of course I understand . 
Well , your sister has had a hard time lately , and there is a complication of causes , resulting in consumption rapid consumption . 
At the hospital I'll keep her here , said Ann Eliza quietly . 
She found Evelina propped upright against the pillows , a flush of agitation on her cheeks . 
Ann Eliza pulled up the shawl which had slipped from her sister's shoulders . 
How long you've been ! What's he been saying ? Oh , he went long ago he on'y stopped to give me a prescription . 
I was sorting out that tray of buttons . 
Miss Mellins's girl got them all mixed up . 
She felt Evelina's eyes upon her . 
He must have said something what was it ? Why , he said you'd have to be careful and stay in bed and take this new medicine he's given you . 
Did he say I was going to get well ? Why , Evelina ! What's the use , Ann Eliza ? You can't deceive me . 
I've just been up to look at myself in the glass and I saw plenty of 'em in the hospital that looked like me . 
They didn't get well , and I ain't going to . 
It don't much matter I'm about tired . 
On'y there's one thing Ann Eliza The elder sister drew near to the bed . 
There's one thing I ain't told you . 
I didn't want to tell you yet because I was afraid you might be sorry but if he says I'm going to die I've got to say it . 
She stopped to cough , and to Ann Eliza it now seemed as though every cough struck a minute from the hours remaining to her . 
Don't talk now you're tired . 
I'll be tireder to morrow , I guess . 
And I want you should know . 
Sit down close to me there . 
Ann Eliza sat down in silence , stroking her shrunken hand . 
I'm a Roman Catholic , Ann Eliza . 
Evelina oh , Evelina Bunner ! A Roman Catholic YOU ? Oh , Evelina , did HE make you ? Evelina shook her head . 
I guess he didn't have no religion he never spoke of it . 
He seemed to make everything easier . 
Oh , sister , how could you ? Ann Eliza wailed . 
She knew little of the Catholic religion except that Papists believed in it in itself a sufficient indictment . 
I don't see Don't I have to be where the baby is ? I couldn't ever ha' gone there if I hadn't been made a Catholic . 
Don't you understand that ? Ann Eliza sat speechless , drawing her hand away . 
Once more she found herself shut out of Evelina's heart , an exile from her closest affections . 
I've got to go where the baby is , Evelina feverishly insisted . 
Ann Eliza could think of nothing to say she could only feel that Evelina was dying , and dying as a stranger in her arms . 
Ramy and the day old baby had parted her forever from her sister . 
If I get worse I want you to send for a priest . 
Miss Mellins'll know where to send she's got an aunt that's a Catholic . 
Promise me faithful you will . 
I promise , said Ann Eliza . 
It seemed to her the diabolical instrument of their estrangement . 
XIII Spring had really come at last . 
One day there was a shy knock on the back room door , and Johnny Hawkins came in with two yellow jonquils in his fist . 
He was getting bigger and squarer , and his round freckled face was growing into a smaller copy of his father's . 
He walked up to Evelina and held out the flowers . 
They blew off the cart and the fellow said I could keep 'em . 
But you can have 'em , he announced . 
Ann Eliza rose from her seat at the sewing machine and tried to take the flowers from him . 
They ain't for you they're for her , he sturdily objected and Evelina held out her hand for the jonquils . 
After Johnny had gone she lay and looked at them without speaking . 
When at last she ventured to look up , she saw that her sister's head had drooped against the pillow , and that she was sleeping quietly . 
Her relaxed hand still held the jonquils , but it was evident that they had awakened no memories she had dozed off almost as soon as Johnny had given them to her . 
The discovery gave Ann Eliza a startled sense of the ruins that must be piled upon her past . 
I don't believe I could have forgotten that day , though , she said to herself . 
But she was glad that Evelina had forgotten . 
Evelina's disease moved on along the usual course , now lifting her on a brief wave of elation , now sinking her to new depths of weakness . 
There was little to be done , and the doctor came only at lengthening intervals . 
On his way out he always repeated his first friendly suggestion about sending Evelina to the hospital and Ann Eliza always answered I guess we can manage . 
The hours passed for her with the fierce rapidity that great joy or anguish lends them . 
But after a few minutes the work dropped from Evelina's hands and she said I'll wait until to morrow . 
He came back with her and did what he could to give Evelina momentary relief then he went away , promising to look in again before night . 
Miss Mellins , her head still covered with curl papers , disappeared in his wake , and when the sisters were alone Evelina beckoned to Ann Eliza . 
You promised , she whispered , grasping her sister's arm and Ann Eliza understood . 
She had not yet dared to tell Miss Mellins of Evelina's change of faith it had seemed even more difficult than borrowing the money but now it had to be done . 
She ran upstairs after the dress maker and detained her on the landing . 
Miss Mellins , can you tell me where to send for a priest a Roman Catholic priest ? A priest , Miss Bunner ? Yes . 
My sister became a Roman Catholic while she was away . 
They were kind to her in her sickness and now she wants a priest . 
Ann Eliza faced Miss Mellins with unflinching eyes . 
I'll run right round to her the minute I get my papers off , the dress maker promised and Ann Eliza thanked her . 
An hour or two later the priest appeared . 
Ann Eliza , who was watching , saw him coming down the steps to the shop door and went to meet him . 
His expression was kind , but she shrank from his peculiar dress , and from his pale face with its bluish chin and enigmatic smile . 
Ann Eliza remained in the shop . 
Miss Mellins's girl had mixed the buttons again and she set herself to sort them . 
The priest stayed a long time with Evelina . 
After that it seemed to Ann Eliza that the shop and the back room no longer belonged to her . 
It was as though she were there on sufferance , indulgently tolerated by the unseen power which hovered over Evelina even in the absence of its minister . 
The priest came almost daily and at last a day arrived when he was called to administer some rite of which Ann Eliza but dimly grasped the sacramental meaning . 
All she knew was that it meant that Evelina was going , and going , under this alien guidance , even farther from her than to the dark places of death . 
When the priest came , with something covered in his hands , she crept into the shop , closing the door of the back room to leave him alone with Evelina . 
It was a warm afternoon in May , and the crooked ailanthus tree rooted in a fissure of the opposite pavement was a fountain of tender green . 
An hour went by before the door of the back room opened and the priest reappeared with that mysterious covered something in his hands . 
Ann Eliza had risen , drawing back as he passed . 
He had doubtless divined her antipathy , for he had hitherto only bowed in going in and out but to day he paused and looked at her compassionately . 
I have left your sister in a very beautiful state of mind , he said in a low voice like a woman's . 
She is full of spiritual consolation . 
Ann Eliza was silent , and he bowed and went out . 
She hastened back to Evelina's bed , and knelt down beside it . 
Evelina's eyes were very large and bright she turned them on Ann Eliza with a look of inner illumination . 
I shall see the baby , she said then her eyelids fell and she dozed . 
It was a very quiet night . 
Evelina never spoke or opened her eyes , but in the still hour before dawn Ann Eliza saw that the restless hand outside the bed clothes had stopped its twitching . 
She stooped over and felt no breath on her sister's lips . 
The funeral took place three days later . 
A week afterward she stood in her bonnet and mantle in the doorway of the little shop . 
Its whole aspect had changed . 
Ann Eliza turned her eyes from the sign as she went out and locked the door behind her . 
Ann Eliza's way lay westward , toward Broadway but at the corner she paused and looked back down the familiar length of the street . 
She walked to Broadway and down to the office of the house agent to whom she had entrusted the sub letting of the shop . 
Behind a counter crowded with pin cushions , watch holders and other needlework trifles , a plump young woman with smooth hair sat sewing bows of ribbon on a scrap basket . 
The friendly air of the place made her pluck up courage to speak . 
Saleslady ? Yes , we do want one . 
Have you any one to recommend ? the young woman asked , not unkindly . 
She would be expected to do a little fancy sewing between times . 
We want a bright girl stylish , and pleasant manners . 
You know what I mean . 
Not over thirty , anyhow and nice looking . 
Will you write down the name ? Ann Eliza looked at her confusedly . 
She opened her lips to explain , and then , without speaking , turned toward the crisply curtained door . 
Ain't you going to leave the AD dress ? the young woman called out after her . 
Ann Eliza went out into the thronged street . 
The great city , under the fair spring sky , seemed to throb with the stir of innumerable beginnings . 
She walked on , looking for another shop window with a sign in it . 
